Sunny: Yeah, good evening to all of you. Let's, start, guys.
Sunny: I'm, sharing my screen. Give me a moment.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so let's, start with the class. So in the previous class, we were talking about the LoRa, right? Now in today's session, guys, one more technique, we need to discuss related to the RLHF, then, we'll start with the RAG, okay? We'll come to the new chapter.
Sunny: So first, let me check out the recording, whether the recording is updated or not.
Sunny: So, how many of you joined my previous class?
Sunny: Yeah, so guys, the previous, recording is uploaded, here is the recording.
Sunny: Now, if you're not able to find out the resources inside the resource section, you can directly check out with the GitHub.
Sunny: So, all the resources and all, everything, basically is available over the GitHub, okay?
Sunny: So this is the resources, guys. So let me,
Sunny: Let me give you this link.
Sunny: Again, I'm giving you inside the chat itself, so directly you can take it from there.
Sunny: Now, guys, how many of you are joining my session regularly? Means you are not even skipping any session, or how many of you are watching the recordings?
Sunny: Yup.
Sunny: Got it, Swati. You started, just now. And I think most of you, you are watching regularly. I can see couple of name,
Sunny: In every class. And some of the people, basically, they are just joining one session, two sessions, and then they are skipping, and then they are referring to the recording, okay?
Sunny: And I think, some of the people, they give up in the first… couple of first classes itself, and…
Sunny: They dropped off, because,
Sunny: they are, they don't know the transformer, and I think they are just, like, learning those transformer and the basic stuff only. They are covering the prerequisite, and then only they will go through with the recording. So, some of, I've seen these kind of people as well in the classes.
Sunny: So, first they cover the prerequisite and the other fundamental, then only they come to the advanced topic, actually.
Sunny: Okay, so no worries, let's begin, let's start. So, first of all, guys, what I'll do, so I will complete the remaining topic, okay? And then, basically, we'll start with the new module.
Sunny: Now someone is saying, I haven't skipped any sort of a class, that's great. Sovik is also saying, not skipped any class. Yes, I know, Sovik, I can see you in every class.
Sunny: And even Asus also.
Sunny: Good.
Sunny: Yeah, yes, Shuklaus also. Ashwini is also there. Ashwini is also a very sincere student.
Sunny: Yeah, Kirti, Swetha, great.
Sunny: No.
Sunny: Thank you. Thank you, guys. Great. So, now let's, do one thing. First of all, guys, let me show you the assignment, whatever, assignment, basically, I had to discuss in the previous class. Then, basically, I will start with the new concept, the new topic, okay?
Sunny: So guys, here's the assignment. So I prepared one, assignment, related to all the fine-tuning concept, whatever we have done so far. So if you're going to solve this particular assignment, then your,
Sunny: entire topic is going to be covered, right? So you can revise your… all the topics, the remaining topic, okay? Whatever we have learned so far.
Sunny: So, guys, I can share this particular link with all of you, and even this, particular assignment will be available inside where, inside the GitHub repository. So from there also, directly, you can take it. Got it?
Sunny: So, let me give you the walkthrough of the assignment, and first, let me share this assignment with all of you, so that you can take a look. So, just a second.
Sunny: I'm, sharing this link inside a chat, right?
Sunny: Yeah, you can start with the RAG itself, Harsh, and later on, you can watch out this fine-tuning session, this fine-tuning videos, whenever you get the time. Got it?
Sunny: So guys, this is the assignment. You have to complete this assignment, so I'm giving you 2 weeks of time. Now, see what we have inside this assignment. So inside this assignment, basically, you have to perform all the mentioned steps, okay?
Sunny: So, what is the aim? So you have to build a domain-specific AI assistant using the onslaught, right? So, we are using, sorry, you have to use the onslaught for solving this particular assignment.
Sunny: You no need to use the hugging face, for solving this, particular assignment, okay? So, this is the objective, guys. So, the objective is what? In this assignment, you need to build a practical domain-specific AI assistant, okay?
Sunny: by fine-tuning an open-source large language model, right? So, guys, you can read out this complete assignment, and if you have any sort of a doubt, you can let me know inside the chat, and even I can give you the quick walkthrough, okay? Just give me one minute, just read out this entire assignment, okay?
Sunny: Great guys, so I hope you have gone through this particular assignment and you have understood what I written.
Sunny: So, see, this is the objective of this assignment, and you have to perform all these steps over here. You have to prepare raw data, you have to perform the non-instruction fine-tuning, then instruction fine-tuning, okay, you have to use the LoRa, QLoRa.
Sunny: And even you can utilize a DORA as well, so there is no such a restriction. Even you can utilize this DORA kind of technique. Then guys, you have to use the preference data creation, DPO alignment, okay, then model evaluation. Either you can use a DPO, or even you can use the ORPO, okay? So that is also fine.
Sunny: Now, model evaluation, before and after comparison, and then you have to save that fine-tuning model. As of now, I am not giving you any sort of a task to host this particular model anywhere.
Sunny: Over the hugging face space or over any cloud, so that I will give you later on. So once I will complete the other cloud related stuff and all, once I will deploy any sort of a project, right? So after that, I will give you the task where you can even deploy this particular project and you can utilize it. You can utilize this particular model, OK, as an API, right? But if you wanted to use this model as a basically as an API, right?
Sunny: you can do, guys. You can simply host this model over the Hugging Face, and directly you can use it over the… via Hugging Face API.
Sunny: Or basically what you can do, you can even host this application over the hugging face space so that you can refer that application anytime. Okay, even you can share that application to anyone, right? So that part comes the hosting and all. Basically this part will come later on. I kept one project related to that. But as of now what you can do, you can simply push this particular model, okay, this fine tune model over the hugging face.
Sunny: And then directly you can read that via API. Okay, so what is a business problem? So the business problem is very simple over here. You are a working gen AI engineer. Your company wants to build an internal AI assistant that can answer question for a specific domain. Okay.
Sunny: Now, guys, the assistant should understand the domain-specific terminology, answer the user question clearly, and give the better response than the base model, right? So, this is the business problem which you need to solve.
Sunny: Now, you can choose any domain. I'm not restricting you for any sort of a domain, okay? So, you can build it for any domain. You can build it for the HR domain, for the customer support assistant, for the finance domain, for the healthcare domain, for the legal document, okay, for the course doubt assistant, for the e-commerce domain, for the IT help desk assistant.
Sunny: So I'm not restricting to anyone for any one domain, okay? So I wanted to see as many a solution. Let's say someone is doing it for the HR domain, then maybe someone is doing it for the finance domain.
Sunny: So, at the end, you will get a solution from all the domain, okay? I will share all the solution with all of you, so that you can utilize that solution. At least you can go through with the data, right?
Sunny: Now, guys, what is your main task? The main task is very simple over here. So, you just need to take a base model, and on top of that, you need to perform the non-instruction tuning, instruction tuning, DPO, or ORPO preference alignment. Let me write it down over here.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Then, guys, your final, domain-specific AI assistant is ready, right? Then, guys, here in the select one, sorry, in the step one, you need to select a domain. Any one domain you can select.
Sunny: So let's say if you are going to select the HR domain, then your model should be able to answer this kind of question. If you are selecting any customer support assistant, right, your model should be able to answer this type of question, okay? Your data should include this type of thing.
Sunny: And if you are going to select any other domain, then, there should be a corresponding example, okay, inside the data. This is just for the example, where I mentioned the two domain itself, right?
Sunny: You can train this model on any sort of a domain. There is no such restriction. So, first of all, you need to create a non-instruction dataset. So, at least create 50 rows inside the non-instruction dataset.
Sunny: And this data set basically can come from anywhere. So this data set can come from anywhere. You can scrap the real time data set. Even you can generate the synthetic data set from the chat GPT and all, right? For whatever domain you are working, you need to generate that raw data set. So the data can come from anywhere and the data inside the data set, basically there should be a 50 paragraph, right? 50 raw domain text.
Sunny: And how to create this raw domain text, everything, guys, I have discussed in my previous classes. Yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny: everything I discussed, right? How to create this raw domain text, data cleaning and all. I already provided you all the solutions, okay? In the previous classes. So guys, you can keep this dataset inside the PDF, you can,
Sunny: keep that raw dataset anywhere, okay? And, you have to take that raw dataset, that is the end goal. Now, after that, guys, what you have to do, you have to take a raw dataset example, okay? Then, here you have to create this, dataset, okay? Take txt file. You can create a txt file, you can create a doc file, okay?
Sunny: You can create a PDF file, any sort of a data file you can create. I don't have such issue with that document, right? Anywhere, basically, you can keep the data. Then you have to perform the non-instruction fine-tuning, and here, your notebook should include what your notebook should include. So whatever I taught you guys, your notebook should include everything over here.
Sunny: And what is going to be our deliverables over here? So this is going to be our deliverables, okay? Non-instruction, fine-tuning.ipynb.
Sunny: Right? Now, guys, you have to create an instruction dataset. Now, over here, guys, inside the instruction dataset, at least 100 data examples should be there. Now, you know about the instruction dataset, how to create an instruction dataset. You can generate the synthetic dataset with the help of AI, right? You can do that, and you can utilize that file.
Sunny: So, till here, everything is fine, everything is clear.
Sunny: Tell me, guys, everything is fine, everything is clear. The thing is, the things are very easy, right? So I'm just explaining the assignment, Sagar, Mayang, okay? And whoever has joined late, because…
Sunny: So, here, I'm just explaining the assignment, what needs to be done. Got it? So, you can read out, this particular, document. I am sharing the link with all of you. I am giving you the link inside the chat itself.
Sunny: Now, guys, after that, guys, see, you have to, give this as a deliverables, okay, this JSONL file. Then you have to test the base model, okay?
Sunny: So, you have to compare it with the base model, okay, the instruction fine-tuned model, right? So, everything I mentioned over here, what you can do. Now, as a model, you can select any sort of a model. I don't have any issue, but guys, here I have given you a couple of names. So, you can utilize this particular model, like Tiny Llama, Quan, Llama, Gima.
Sunny: So these are some good model, okay? With that, actually, you will get some good result.
Sunny: Getting my point.
Sunny: Now, your, notebook should include what your notebook should include, guys. So here, I have mentioned the thing. Then, this is the deliverables for this particular step. Then you have to compare the base model with the instruction-tuned model, okay? So you have to create a comparison table like this.
Sunny: So, after that, guys, you have to create the evaluation criteria also. So, this is, like, optional one you can create, but if you are going to be created, guys, so this is a good one. Then, guys, after that, you have to create a preference dataset, okay? At least 50 preference examples should be there.
Sunny: And then, guys, after that, you have to, again, train your model, okay, using the DPO or the ORPO technique. Any one technique you can utilize.
Sunny: Got it, guys? Now, your notebook should include this one. And here's a deliverable, and this is the final evaluation. You have to evaluate the final model. And now this… there will be a final comparison table, okay? Now this is the evaluation criteria you need to check out with this particular, step, right?
Sunny: Now, after that, guys, see, everything I mentioned, what you have to do at the end. So, you have to explain the LoRa, QLoRa, non-instruction fine-tuning, FT, SFT, and the DPO, okay, and the ORPO. So, you have to create, some sort of a notes, right, kind of a document. There, you need to keep each and everything over there, okay, related to that
Sunny: Now, after that, guys, here you can see, this is… this is… there's going to be a final, inferencing script. You need to write a final inferencing, script, okay? Where you have to load the model from the hugging face, and you have to show the, and what do you have to show, guys? You have to show the final inferencing, right? Either via hugging face API, you can load the model, or directly you can load the model inside the RAM itself, right?
Sunny: Now, see, guys, this is all about the inferencing, and your GitHub repository structure should be like this. You can have a structure something like this. Inside one folder, you can keep the data. Inside the other folder, you can keep the notebook. Then there should be a report, okay, related to each and every evaluation criteria.
Sunny: Then inside the SRC, there should be inferencing.py, so that we can make an inferencing. And later on, even we can perform the RAG on top of this particular model, okay? Then here should be a requirement.txt. Right, so what you need to mention inside the README, so there is all the thing, guys, okay?
Sunny: Now, here is some sort of a dataset reference. I've given you some dataset reference, guys. So, here you can see the customer support assistant.
Sunny: Okay, finance dataset reference, healthcare dataset reference, legal document reference…
Sunny: Okay, course doubt assistant, so this dataset is also there, e-commerce dataset reference, IT help desk assistant reference. Okay, even you can create some data using the chat GPT also, right? So that is very easy, nothing you have to do, right? You just need to give some instruction, and your data would be ready.
Sunny: Alright, now after that, guys, see, this is the final expected output. I think you can read it out that, and this is the submission instruction, right? You can read it out that. Now, using this particular form, you have to submit the assignment, okay? So this is the submission form, and the submission date is going to be 11th July, okay? Now, guys, after that, what we will do, so here, guys, top 3 performer. So, here I can write the demonstration day.
Sunny: demonstration day is going to be 12th of July.
Sunny: Right? 12th of July, 2026 is going to be a demonstration day. Now, I will… so you will only select the 3 winners, right? So you will only…
Sunny: Select.
Sunny: 3, top 3 winner.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: Top 3 winner, and these 3 winner… This… 3, you know?
Sunny: will get a… Axis.
Sunny: of the… Upcoming.
Sunny: codes.
Sunny: Okay, this, person will get access of the upcoming course. That is what? Advance.
Sunny: route, Okay? So they will get access of the upcoming course, that is an advanced route.
Sunny: The upcoming course, basically, which we are going to be launching, let me show you
Sunny: So, once you will go with and check with the kishnag.inna, you will get it over there. So, just go inside the code section.
Sunny: And instead of live, basically, you will get that. So, let me open the live classes. So, you will get access of this particular course, guys. Production Ready, Advanced Route. Okay, so, if you are going to win this particular competition, then we'll provide you the access. Got it, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: I hope, everyone is clear, with this assignment. Tell me, guys, everything is clear over here?
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: So, you will get a 15 days only. The assignment till 11 July, okay? Somehow 14 days. I think it is more than enough. And you can use any sort of a cloud, Sorry, you can use any sort of a coding assistant. I don't have any issue. So, use any coding assistant.
Sunny: I don't have any issue. Use Claude.
Sunny: Okay. Use, basically Codex, right? Use Copilot.
Sunny: Right, anything, anything you can use, you can use the cursor also, you can use the anti-gravity.
Sunny: With whatever, basically, AI coding assistant you are comfortable, you can utilize any sort of a coding assistant. I'm not forcing you to write this particular code from scratch, no. Use any sort of a coding assistant, right? Whatever you wanted to use. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: Tell me.
Sunny: Everything I've written over here, Krish
Sunny: So, Chris S, right? So, you can check out what will be the evaluation criteria. If you're going to… if your submission is going to be like this, okay, and if your submission is going to be include everything, then, yes, that solution would be the correct.
Sunny: And, guys, even… see, I'm not going to be evaluated there. People will demonstrate this solution, and you are going to be evaluated, okay? And you are going to vote.
Sunny: Whether this person is having a first rank, that person is having a second rank, or this person is having a third rank, right? You are only going to decide based on the demonstration. I'm not going to decide that.
Sunny: But rest of the thing, everything basically I have mentioned inside the document itself. Making sense to all of you guys? Tell me. So, did you like this assignment? So, with this assignment, basically, you can revise your entire fine-tuning chapter.
Sunny: So whatever we have learned so far, if you're going to perform this assignment by yourself, then you can basically revise all those concepts. Understood?
Sunny: Okay. Where to submit? I mentioned the link for the submission. You can submit it via that particular link. Got it?
Sunny: No, there will not be, like, much, okay, submission. I know there will be a couple of submissions, and the demonstration will not take much time. It will only take one class. So, on 12th of July, we will be having the demonstration, and you are only going to be voted to the person, okay, whoever is going to win this particular challenge, right?
Sunny: Three week is like, I think one week is enough for this particular assignment is not very typical. Okay, here I mentioned everything in a very detailed, that's why it is looking like a very big assignment, but it is not. It is a simple assignment only, right? If you have attended my all the session related to fine tuning, then this assignment is nothing for you. Easily you can do that, right?
Sunny: Yep.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Fine. So, guys, did you like the assignment? Tell me, how many people like this assignment?
Sunny: And it is a complete revision, basically, of all the topics, actually. If you're going to be solved this assignment, then I will give you one more, like, assignment, the advanced assignment, where basically you're going to be actually host the model. Got it?
Sunny: Great.
Sunny: So, assignment 2, 3, now this is going to be assignment 4. So, just a second, let me mention it, inside the…
Sunny: So, let me mention it inside one of the folder.
Sunny: Here, the assignment 4, right?
Sunny: Assignment 04. And guys, nothing is the different one over here. Whatever I have taught in the class.
Sunny: More than 90% thing would be the similar one.
Sunny: Okay? More than 90% things are going to be a similar one over here. So you can do everything inside the Google Collab, itself, okay? Even you can purchase the Google Collab upgrade, the pro version, if you are willing to do that. Otherwise, no need to go for that, you can do it inside the Collab, itself. Because Unsloth.
Sunny: With Ansible, basically, you are going to be save a lot of memory.
Sunny: No, this is like trusted method, Krish. So this is not a 1st time. So I think I had done this thing in the in my previous, like all the batches. Okay, in my 8 to 10 previous batches. And this is like tested method. People are demonstrating the solution, and the remaining people are still having a capability of judging those solution. Got it?
Sunny: Assignment 04.
Sunny: So, wait a moment, I am giving you this particular assignment, I am keeping it inside the folder itself. Just a sec.
Sunny: See, it is not mandatory, but if you are going to do it, that would be great, okay? It is up to you whether you are going to do it or not. But yeah, I would suggest you please complete this assignment. This will give you, like, a good revision from previous all the topic, and it will help you a lot in terms of building your fine-tuning concept.
Sunny: Your most of the doubt is going to be clarified over here.
Sunny: Fine, so let me push the assignment, and now it is there, over the…
Sunny: Github, guys, so directly you can take it from there.
Sunny: Got it? So if everyone is ready, if everyone is clear, then please let me know so that I can, proceed with the session.
Sunny: I'm giving the GitHub link one more time. Please keep it with you.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Here is our assignment, this one. This is our assignment.
Sunny: Good.
Sunny: So, if you are clear, guys, then please let me know in the chat so that we can proceed with the session.
Sunny: Here, it is uploaded. The advance goes right on the same time that how our session will be attended. It's going to… it's not going to be start early, I think it's going to be start in the August itself, right? So don't worry. Until that time, we'll be able to cover the majority of the module. Got it?
Sunny: Everything I mentioned inside this, document itself, guys, and please make sure that you are going to push your model over the hugging phase, okay? I haven't mentioned those, explicitly over here, but I'll do that. But guys, please make sure that you are going to push your each and every model over the hugging phase.
Sunny: You know, right, how to push the model over the hugging face? Yes or no?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Yeah, definitely, Raju, I'll do that, okay? Don' Okay.
Sunny: Yeah, you know, right? Everyone knows how to push their model over the hugging phase. So, guys, I'm going to… so, there's going to be, like, inferencing, right? In a going-forward session also, we can directly utilize this particular model in our rack pipeline also. So, please keep this model over the hugging phase, and from there, directly, we can load it.
Sunny: If you don't know, if anyone don't know about that, you can check out my previous session. I already shown you that. You can check out with that Hugging Face session, okay?
Sunny: And topic renaming-wise, guys, don't worry, I'll rename all the topics over here. Whatever I taught in the class, I will mention it over here. But right now, for the reference, what you can do, guys, you can check out inside the GitHub. So inside the GitHub, guys, I mentioned the class-wise topic, and it is 100% accurate. This particular topic, whatever I taught, I mentioned the class-wise.
Sunny: And it is 100% accurate, okay? You can check out over here.
Sunny: Yeah, correct, yes. Push to hub, load from the hub, that's it. We just have to call two method over there, okay?
Sunny: Sure.
Sunny: It is there over the dashboard. So, fine, all the best for the assignment, guys. Again, I'm not going to explain this assignment, everything I've mentioned inside the document itself. So, all the best to all of you, please complete this assignment, then I will give you so many different, different assignments inside the RAC chapter.
Sunny: So after complete the data parsing, I'll give you a very good assignment related to the document AI, then I'll give you related to the vector database, and then I'll give you one more mega assignment related to the RAG, okay? And there we'll keep some prize money also. Prize money means I'll give some prize money, okay?
Sunny: In one of my sessions, basically, you know, I've given 14,000 rupees of
Sunny: Okay, in my one of the sessions. So, that kind of price, basically, I'm thinking, but yeah, for that, I will give you that kind of assignment as well. So, that's going to be a very huge assignment.
Sunny: Okay. So, we'll, we'll provide you that, guys, don't worry.
Sunny: And, I'll give you, like, so many different, different assignments as we'll progress inside the course.
Sunny: You can check out that post, I posted that on my, LinkedIn also.
Sunny: So, yeah.
Sunny: Fine.
Sunny: It is from the Krish Academy, but yeah, so even I am part of that, so I can give from my personal account as well, so no worries.
Sunny: Fine, so guys, the one topic was remaining, the topic was name… the topic name was the RLHF, okay? So just give me a moment, guys, let me open my Scribble link, and then I'll open the RLHF one.
Sunny: No, assignment, in the group is prohibited, okay? So, you have to do it,
Sunny: Like, by yourself only, don't do it in a group, okay?
Sunny: It is not a hackathon, so soon we'll, launch a hackathon as well, in the going forward, session, and, basically we are preparing one landing page also, so we'll have some, gathering as well, okay, some meetups, we are planning, okay, for our student.
Sunny: So you can, if you're in Bangalore, you can come over the venue, and even we are going to be, like, launch the live hackathon as well, in our upcom
Sunny: Days, right? So soon you will get that kind of information over the Krishnai.in as well.
Sunny: Okay, so we are, basically preparing for that also. And there, the prize money and everything is going to be very amazing, so if you are going to visit the venue, then, breakfast, lunch, dinner, that kind of facility you will get, and, alongside the hackathon also will be conducted.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: If you are from US, then you can join virtually, okay?
Sunny: Great. So, guys, let me open the RLHF-related notes, and then, basically, we'll discuss about that.
Sunny: Now, let me clarify a couple of things, with respect to this, RLHF, okay? So, what, is required, what we need to be learning inside the RLHF, and
Sunny: Basically, till, what extent it is important, okay? So, let me, discuss each and everything over here related to this RLHF now. So, just give me a moment, guys, let me do some cleanup.
Sunny: And then we'll discuss. Already I discussed this point, if you remember, in my previous classes, related to the preference tuning. So I think in my first or second class, I've given you the complete introduction of the fine tuning.
Sunny: Okay, so there we discuss, about the preference tuning, and this RLHF actually, it is a way to achieve the preference tuning only, right?
Sunny: So, let's, discuss about that. So, just give me a second, and then, basically, we can understand about it. So, guys, whenever we are talking about the preference tuning, so that, preference tuning, basically, we can do in many ways, okay?
Sunny: So, that preference tuning, basically.
Sunny: we can do, you know, many ways. So, guys, tell me how many stages we have for the fine-tuning.
Sunny: For the LLM training.
Sunny: We have 3 stages of the RLM training.
Sunny: The first stage of the LLM training is called the Pre-training, right?
Sunny: The second stage… Second is this of the?
Sunny: LLM training is called the.
Sunny: Instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Then, guys, the third stage of the training is called the…
Sunny: Preference tuning.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: The third stage of the training is called the Preference, TOD.
Sunny: Now, this particular stage, actually, it is, it was introduced by
Sunny: It was introduced by the OpenAI.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So there is a different, different method to achieve this preference tuning, to perform this preference tuning. So the classical method to achieve this preference tuning
Sunny: is what? It is a RLHF.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Aaron?
Sunny: HF, right? And now, using this particular method, basically, what we can do, we can achieve the preference tuning, and this particular method was introduced by the OpenAI. Okay, this RLHF, basically, this particular method was introduced by the OpenAI.
Sunny: Now, we have some other method also, so in the latest time, so you will find out some other method also. So, DeepSeek also introduced one method.
Sunny: DeepCKI also introduced one particular method. The method was the GRPO.
Sunny: Okay? Now, again, it is a, basically one, advanced variant of the PPO, okay?
Sunny: Of the PPO method, which was being used inside the RLHF.
Sunny: Then, guys, there was one more method, which was introduced by the Stanford University.
Sunny: So let me write the name over here.
Sunny: The third method, which was introduced by the Stanford University.
Sunny: That is what? That is a DPO method.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: DPO method. Already, we have discussed this particular method in our previous session. If you will go and check, you will get it.
Sunny: Now, we have one more method, okay?
Sunny: ORPO method, right? This is, again, one updated method on top of the DPO.
Sunny: So, to understand the fundamental of the preference tuning, we can understand about the RLHF, and we can understand about the DPO, okay? So, these two techniques I will show you in today's class. And the assignment which I've given you, there, basically, you can perform the ORPO also. Code-wise, it is very simple.
Sunny: you just have to, import one class, from the unsloth itself. So it is making sense to all of you, tell me yes or no, this four method. Even you can check out the research paper of each and every method. So let me open the research paper also. Wait.
Sunny: Give me a moment, guys, okay? I'm searching about the research paper. So, here, guys, what I'm doing, I'm, going to be search about the research paper. You just need to be write the ORPO research paper, okay?
Sunny: So do one… do one thing. Just a second. Yeah. So do one thing, guys. Open your browser and write over here, O-R-P-O, research paper.
Sunny: O-R-P-O, research paper.
Sunny: So once you will do that, once you will write it down, guys, you will get, that particular research paper. See, here is the research paper.
Sunny: And even the hugging face also, they have given you the very good, very good basically blog. So you can read out this particular blog and you can understand about the preference tuning and the method that is a ORPO, right? So this is the research paper, the original research paper of the ORPO monolithic preference optimization without the reference model. Similar to that, you will get the DPO method also, OK, the different different method.
Sunny: If you wanted to check who has created this particular method, so simply you can go through with this particular research paper, and you can check out over here. So there is one company, K-A-I-S-T-A-I, right? So this company, I think it's a Chinese company, right? You can directly search, so just copy the name of this company and put it over the browser.
Sunny: So, here you can see, guys, this is a Chinese company. So, this Chinese company actually have created, this particular,
Sunny: They have created, basically, this particular method, okay?
Sunny: So, Chinese and, and the USA companies are basically are doing a very good job, right, in terms of the different, different research and all. So, whatever research you will find out, so either you will get it from the US or from the China itself.
Sunny: So, here, guys, I've shown you two methods, sorry, four methods, RLHF, GRPO, DPO, and the ORPO, right?
Sunny: So…
Sunny: I think you've got to know, via which company this, ORPO method have been created. Okay, directly you can utilize that. You will get a very good block, inside the Hugging Face itself, so directly you can check out the Hugging Face for implementing it, right?
Sunny: Or else, you are going to be billed the entire assignment via Ansalotna.
Sunny: So, inside the Ansloth also, you will find out the ORPO trainer class directly you can utilize from there, okay? Even the DPO and the ORPO. All the classes, basically, you will get it over there. ORPO, DPO, RLHF, and the GRPO also. So, is it making sense? Yes or no?
Sunny: So, to understand the fundamental of the preference tuning, we need to go through, okay, it's a Korean company, fine.
Sunny: Oh.
Sunny: Sorry guys, my bad, it is a Korean company.
Sunny: So guys, here, you can see, we're talking about the, preference tuning. To understand the fundamental, we need to understand the RLHF technique, okay? This reinforcement learning through human feedback. So here, basically, I prepared the entire notes, and this is a very good notes, right? You can refer it.
Sunny: So, let me go through this, let me go over these notes, okay, step by step, one by one, and let me show you each and every point from there. So, guys, can you read out the definition of the RLHF from here? Tell me, is it visible to all of you? So, what is a RLHF, guys? RLHF is nothing, it is a training method.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: RLHF is what? It's a training method, or it's a training process that uses reinforcement learning algorithm like PPO.
Sunny: So, PPO is what? PPO, actually, it's a reinforcement learning-based algorithm, right? Along with what? Along with the human feedback, okay, to align the language model, that is, LLM, with the human preferences. Getting my point, guys? So, guys, if we're talking about the instruction tuning, there we perform the SFT.
Sunny: Here, basically, what we do, we were talking about the instruction tuning.
Sunny: So we perform the SFT, okay? Now, what is the meaning of the SFT, guys? SFT is nothing, it is a supervised fine-tuning
Sunny: So, inside the supervised fine-tuning, we are teaching to the model that this is the correct answer.
Sunny: Right? So we are training our model on top of the input and output column.
Sunny: So in one column, we have an input prompt, another column, we have an output prompt. Or you can say we are training our model over the question and answer data.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: We are training our model over the question and answer data. We are training our model over the conversational data, right?
Sunny: And what we are teaching to our model inside the SF pretending, that this is the correct answer, right? Based on this particular input, you have to follow this output, this one. Now, if we're talking about the RLHF, guys, so in the RLHF, what we are teaching, inside the preference tuning, what we are teaching.
Sunny: We are teaching that this is a… this answer is better than the other one.
Sunny: Okay, because in the real time, if we're talking about the real time, so there could be multiple correct answer, right? So let's understand, this particular thing using this example, so that idea will be very much clear. Now, I have a two prompt, sorry, I have a prompt, this is my prompt.
Sunny: Now, let's say I'm providing this particular prompt to the ChatGPT, and ChatGPT is giving me the two answers.
Sunny: ChatGPT is providing me the two answers. Now, this is the output one. Now, this output is a simple one, right? So, I'm saying, I'm asking, explain the AI. So, output is, output is saying, AI means machine that can learn, think, or make decisions like a human.
Sunny: For example, chatbots are a driving car in the recommendation system. Now, we're talking about the second output. So, it is a complex and a confusing one, right? Now, you can read out the definition of the AI. So, AI is a computational paradigm involving algorithmic approximation of the cognitive process through statistical inferencing, something, something, right?
Sunny: Now, guys, over here, you can see that both answers are correct. Technically, both answers are correct. But which answer you are going to prefer over here? Tell me.
Sunny: Both answers are the different ones.
Sunny: Both answer is a different one, right? But which you are going to be preferred? Definitely, guys, as a beginner, right? As a beginner.
Sunny: You are going to prefer the answer A.
Sunny: Correct? Or as a normal human being, which simply wanted to understand the meaning of the AI, okay? So in that case, they are going to prefer the answer A, because the answer A is the simple and the clear one.
Sunny: So that is what I wanted… that is what, basically, I'm trying to say over here. What I'm trying to say, guys, I'm trying to say that in the real world, there could be a multiple answer, right? But which answer you are going to be preferred, that depends on you only, okay? That depends on human. So this is what, basically, we wanted to teach to our model.
Sunny: And this is what the OpenAI is teaching to our model. And nowadays, every big company are teaching to our model. Okay?
Sunny: Understood? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Is this part clear or not? So this is what, basically, we can achieve. This is what, basically, we can achieve using what? Using the RLHF, right? Now, guys, if we're talking about the RLHF,
Sunny: If we're talking about the RLHF, so there is a 5 main character inside the RLHF.
Sunny: The first is called the human annotator, okay?
Sunny: Which is going to be annotated the data. The second is called the reward model. The third is called the value model. Fourth is called the policy model. And then, basically, we have the PPO method, PPO processing. So, if we're talking about the RHF, guys.
Sunny: So, this is a little complex process.
Sunny: Okay? This is a little complex.
Sunny: Process.
Sunny: Now we have the easier process also, like DPO.
Sunny: But guys, again, we can understand it, because it was our first method, it was our classical method. Even I can show you that, how it is working. Okay?
Sunny: this RLHF process, or the complex process, right? Now, guys, if we're talking about… okay, so if we're talking about the developers.
Sunny: Right? Let's say you are a Gen AI developer.
Sunny: So, in a real time, are you going to do this RLHF? Are you going to perform this RLHF for the preference tuning? The answer is basically no, right? There's very less chances. In a real time, you are going to be performed that, okay? In the real time, basically, you can utilize this GPO or the ORPO kind of technique.
Sunny: ORP kind of technique. So why we are learning this RLHF? Because it is a classical method and many concept comes from there. If you are going to be understand that, that our foundation would be very, very strong.
Sunny: Understood? So that's why, guys, we are, focusing a little bit on RLHR. We are going to be spend some time over the RLHR, okay?
Sunny: Now, guys, if we're talking about, the real-time scenario, okay, the real-time fine-tuning and all, there, basically, you can perform this DPO, ORPO, or even the RLHF,
Sunny: frequently, right? I have seen the enterprises, the pharma enterprises, healthcare enterprises, finance-related companies, right? So they are training some model over the preference dataset, so the model can behave accordingly.
Sunny: Getting my point.
Sunny: Yes or no, guys. I have seen some of the team, okay, even in my organization also, so they are, they were working on the DPO kind of techniques. They were working on what? They were working on the DPO kind of technique. So, I'm not saying that in every interview you will find out the question related to the preference tuning, but yeah, in some interviews, maybe out of 10,
Sunny: in one interview, actually, you can get the, quotient related to the fine-tuning, and even related to the preference tuning. It depends. You can read out the job description, there you will get the complete detail.
Sunny: Making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: So, this preference tuning, comparability is being used a little bit more, okay, than the SFT and the
Sunny: other kind of tuning. So yeah, you can, basically, focus more while you are solving the assignment.
Sunny: And even while you are revising the previous session. SFT also, and the DP also, okay? This two, sorry, SFT also and the preference tuning, guys, this is being performed, this is being performed a lot in the industry. A lot means what? See, I'm not comparing with the RAG solution or the Agentic solution. A lot means, basically.
Sunny: Sometimes, right? So, you will find out these two techniques, except in the
Sunny: Preference tuning, right? Where, I have seen this, preference tuning, one or two times, okay? Even in my, basically organization, I have seen that PPO, sorry, people were using the DPO technique and they were trying to align some, base model with the responses, right?
Sunny: Now guys, here, you can see.
Sunny: if we're talking about the RLHF, so we have these five main characters inside the RLHF, okay? So, is this part clear to all of you? So, this will be clear more related to the RLHF, and I will discuss in a detail all this concept. So, first of all, tell me, is this slide clear?
Sunny: If this slide clear, so we can proceed further, right? Now, guys, you can look into this particular slide. So here, guys, what I mentioned, just focus over here. So whenever we are talking about the RLHF, so there is three main stages of the RLHF.
Sunny: This is called a Stage 1.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, this is called a Stage 2.
Sunny: And this is called as Stage 3.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: So here what we are doing, see first we are going to be collect the data, okay? And after collecting the data, see this one, this is stage one and this is stage one is the same. We are going to be collected data and then basically we are going to be aligned the data, okay? So inside this particular stage, this one and this one, we are preparing the data. This is the data preparation stage.
Sunny: data.
Sunny: Preparation stage.
Sunny: Now, after that, guys, what we are doing, we are going to be training our reward model.
Sunny: Okay? We are going to train the reward model. Now, for training the reward model, we are using the supervised technique called the SFT technique. So, once we'll get the reward model, guys, now this particular reward model we are using inside our RL technique.
Sunny: Okay? Now what we have, we'll be having the prompt. Now this particular prompt will be going through the policy model. Now this is my actual model, which I wanted to train, the LLM model.
Sunny: Okay? Now, this particular answer is being compared by the reward model and the value model. So here, we'll be having one more model, that is a value model. Okay?
Sunny: Now, whatever reward we are going to be generate, so we are going to be compare this reward with the expected reward, right? And then again, this entire process is going on. So we're talking about the RLHF, so how many main stages are there?
Sunny: So inside this particular technique, guys, we have three main stages. First is the data preparation, the second is training a reward model, and the third, basically, the RL technique, that is a PPO technique.
Sunny: Is it clear?
Sunny: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Is this part getting clear to all of you?
Sunny: Tell me.
Sunny: Okay, now guys, what is a PPO? PPO is called the policy proximal optimization, right? It is a RL algorithm. So I'll discuss what it is and how does it work? Okay, on a means how it is working inside the RLHF on that level, I will discuss.
Sunny: I'm not going into the detail of the PPO and all, because again, this is not required, and again, we are not focusing on the reinforcement learning, because that is a…
Sunny: Like, that concept is out of scope from this particular syllabus, okay? For that, basically, I will have to explain the complete reinforcement learning, the different algorithms, like, QTable and, DQN network, then, basically the value-based learning and the policy-based learning.
Sunny: then basically this PPO will be started. So that is a, altogether different kind of discussion. So I'm not going into the detail of the PPO and all, but yeah, I will show you that how this PPO works in terms of the RLHF. Got it?
Sunny: Now, guys, here, basically, I define this each and every stage in a very detail, so you will get a little more understanding related to each and every stage. So, guys, can we understand this stage over here? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, let me explain you this stage over here.
Sunny: Inside this slide. So what was the first stage? What was the first step? Please tell me what was the first step?
Sunny: What is the full form of the SFT? Kalyan, why you are asking this question now? We have completed the entire fine-tuning module, and now you are asking this question,
Sunny: SFT is called the supervised fine-tuning, okay?
Sunny: Now, guys, if we're talking about the step 1, so that is what, that is a data preparation. So let me mention it over here. The step 1 is nothing, it is a…
Sunny: data preparation.
Sunny: So, we're going to be prepare the data inside the stage 1. So, what we are going to be correct the human preferences, okay? So, let's say we have a prompt. Prompt is explain machine learning. So, LLM is going to be generate two response. Response A, now let's say this is the response A, and here is a response B.
Sunny: Okay? Now, the human evaluator says that A is a better one than the B one.
Sunny: Right? So we store the data, A, we have a prompt, we have a prompt, then A is a chosen one, and the B is a rejected one. So this is what, this is called the human feedback.
Sunny: Okay? And likewise, guys, what we are going to do, we are going to be prepare the data. So what we do, guys, we collect the human preference.
Sunny: We collect the human preference.
Sunny: Okay? So, if you remember the ChatGPT, so ChatGPT is also collecting human preferences in the same way.
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: Yes?
Sunny: ChatGPT is also collecting the human preferences in a same way. So let's say if you are going to be write anything over the ChatGPT, so sometimes ChatGPT is giving the two responses
Sunny: And it is asking to you which response is a better one.
Sunny: It is asking you which response is a better one. So let's say this is response A, and this is response B.
Sunny: So, it is asking to you which response is a better one. So, let's say we are saying response A is a better one. So, it's going to be collect that particular data.
Sunny: In a backend.
Sunny: Okay? Collect that particular data in a backend, and again, it is, they are using this data, again, they are using this data for retraining the model to perform the preference tuning. So that step comes under the data preparation.
Sunny: Understood? Yes or no?
Sunny: So, even you can do in your real-time application, you can give the option to the user, whether user can choose the answer, whether they are going to prefer this answer or that answer, okay?
Sunny: Or else, basically, what you can do, you can use… sorry, you can basically ask to the SME or to the business analyst that, can you give me the ready-made data for the preference tuning?
Sunny: Okay, can you annotate this data manually? So, you can take that kind of approach in a real enterprises. Making sense?
Sunny: Is this part getting clear? So the first stage is what? The first stage is called the data preparation. Got it. Now guys, here is some of the link. See here you can see this is this link I have mentioned. So you will get some ready made data related to the preference tuning. Even I shown you this data in my previous classes also. Now again, let me show you that.
Sunny: So if, for the practice purpose, you wanted to use any sort of a data, you can utilize this particular data. This data is being provided by the Anthropic. You can utilize this data set for what, guys? For the practice purpose.
Sunny: Making sense?
Sunny: I will give you this link inside the chat, you can keep it with you, and even I mention inside the notes also, so directly you can take it from there. Got it?
Sunny: How do we get two responses like shown in the chat GPT? You can do that kind of configuration in your application, NLG, right?
Sunny: Whenever you are doing a configuration, see, whenever you are generating the response from the AI, it is generating a
Sunny: different response. Every time it's not going to be generated the same response, okay? So that kind of logic you can write in a backend, that after 5 prompts, after every 10 prompts, it will ask to the user.
Sunny: or if the question is being repeated, so it will ask to the user, after generating the two responses, whether you need to select this one or that one. It's all about the, like, the logic, which we are going to be writing a backend, that's it.
Sunny: Got it? So, here, you can see, so what you have, so you have this particular data. So, now, guys, what is the first stage, what is the first step of the RLHF? Can you please let me know in the chat?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: What is the first stage, or what is the first step?
Sunny: human annotation, or in short, we can say data preparation. Collection of the data is the first stage of the RLHF, okay? Now, guys, what we are doing… so, here we have the next step. So, can you tell me what is the next step of the RLHF?
Sunny: Please let me know in the chat what is the next step of the RLHF.
Sunny: Let me remove, this pen mark from here.
Sunny: So here, guys, tell me what is the next step? The next step, basically, to train a reward model, okay? So what we are going to do, we are going to train the reward model.
Sunny: So we'll collect the data and we'll train one LLM in the backend. I'll show you each and every step in a practical also, so don't we worry about that. So the next stage is going to be what? The next stage basically is going to be to train a reward model. So here you can see the step two or the stage two. We do not start with the PPO immediately.
Sunny: Okay, we are not going to apply the PPO algorithm directly. First, what we do, we train the reward model. Okay? Now, what is the meaning of the reward model? So, here I mentioned the definition of the reward model.
Sunny: So, reward modeling is a process of training a model. Now, this model, actually, it's going to be a LLM model only, this model.
Sunny: Okay? To evaluate or score or rank a response according to the human preferences.
Sunny: Understood, guys. So, let's say you have a data Here is our data, guys.
Sunny: In the data, what we have, we have a prompt.
Sunny: We have our chosen.
Sunny: Okay, and we have rejected.
Sunny: We have a 3-column. So what we do, guys, we provide this data to our LLM,
Sunny: we train our LLM on top of this particular data.
Sunny: Okay? And then we generate one numerical value.
Sunny: Right? We generate what? We generate one numerical value.
Sunny: That how, how much this, response the chosen and the rejected is aligned to this particular prompt.
Sunny: Got it? So that numerical value, actually, it is also called the reward signal.
Sunny: Reward signal.
Sunny: Or this particular value is also called the reward.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: This, particular value is called the reward signal, or it is also called the reward.
Sunny: I hope this thing is getting clear. So, in RLHF, reward is nothing, it is a proxy of the human judgment. So, first, we are going to be collecting data based on the human preferences. Then, what we are doing, we are going to be training one reward model. Now, that reward model, actually, it is working on behalf of the human.
Sunny: Okay? That LLM model, actually, it is working on behalf of the human. So that's the simple meaning of the reward model. So here we can say reward model is like an LLM as a judge. You are right, Mohan. Got it?
Sunny: No.
Sunny: Who will create the reward model? We will only create a reward model.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: So, guys, here you can see, reward model, this is the second stage. So we have our input data, that is a prompt, the response A, and the response B.
Sunny: The reward model learns, okay, we have a response A. If the reward is… we are getting the reward 8, okay, the response B, related to this particular response B, we are getting reward 3. So the reward model is now learning to imitate the human preferences.
Sunny: Right? If it is giving the higher reward, means the output is correct. If it is giving the lower reward, means the output is not correct, related to the prompt. So I will show you how to train this reward model, then you will get a clear understanding.
Sunny: Now, what is the pipeline for training the reward model? So, guys, here you can see the complete pipeline for training the reward model. I mentioned the step-by-step pipeline so that you can understand it, okay? Now, let me explain you, let me remove this, particular…
Sunny: Text. Now see guys, first what we are doing, we are going to be generating multiple responses, means we are going to be collecting data, right? Human is labeling that particular data, right? So we have multiple responses, human is labeling that particular data, and the data we are getting.
Sunny: Now, after that, guys, after getting our data, what we are doing, we are going to be train a reward model. So, this is the input, guys, prompt and the responses, okay? Chosen and the rejected.
Sunny: Now, we are getting what? We are getting the score. That score is going to be the scalar value. Now, what is the objective of the reward modeling, guys? So, the objective of the reward modeling, basically, to give the more reward to the chosen
Sunny: Instead of the rejected one.
Sunny: What is the core idea? The core idea is nothing. The core idea of this reward modeling, to find out the better answer, okay? Better versus worse. Correct or the incorrect answer. If you have multiple responses, that which response you are going to be preferred, that is a main idea, that is a main,
Sunny: sorry, that is a, basically, aim to, that is the aim of this reward modeling. Means here, this reward modeling, basically, is going to be what? It's going to be provide the reward, okay? If the answer is going to be chosen, it will provide the more reward. If the answer is going to be rejected, it will provide the less reward.
Sunny: Making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no. So I hope this slide is also clear. So how many stages we have covered so far? We're talking about the stages, guys.
Sunny: How many stages we have covered over here?
Sunny: Yes, it is a set of the responses, correct.
Sunny: So we have covered the two response… two stages. The first stage is going to be what? It's going to be the collection of the data. The second stage is going to be what? The second stage is going to be a…
Sunny: Second stage is going to be what? The second stage is going to be the reward mortgage, okay? Now, what is going to be the third stage? So, the third stage, basically, is going to be a
Sunny: PPO algorithm, right? So let me explain the PPO, basically, how does it work, and let's understand the working of the PPO.
Sunny: So, guys, here, I'm, not going to be, like, explaining you this, step, 3 as of now. So, I will show you this step 3 in the form… in the form of this, summarized image, okay? So, let me show you that specific image. With that, basically, you will get a very clear-cut understanding related to the PPO.
Sunny: So this is the entire PPU algorithm, with respect to what? With respect to the RLHF. Here, I mentioned the step-by-step process. So if you are going in an interview, and if you wanted to revise, if you wanted to revise the RLHF,
Sunny: So you can definitely refer to this particular image, okay? It will give you the quick revision, it will give you the quote, it will give you the quick revision of what of the RLHF.
Sunny: So I hope this is visible to all of you. Can we start? Can we understand this entire process, that how this entire RLHF is working, and how the PPO is working over there?
Sunny: Great. So guys, see.
Sunny: First, what is happening over here?
Sunny: user is writing a prompt, okay? So let's say the user is writing what is a machine learning. Got it?
Sunny: Now, here, basically, we have one model that is called the policy model, policy network.
Sunny: This is what, this is my main LLM, which I wanted to train.
Sunny: Okay, this one.
Sunny: Okay? Which I wanted to preference align. This is what… this is my main model. So this is what… this is called what? This is called the policy network, right? So this policy network is generating the responses.
Sunny: Right? This policy network is what? This policy network generating a responses, and corresponding to this responses, basically, it is going to be… provide some probability also. Okay? So mathematically, basically, it provide the probability only this model.
Sunny: we are going to be stored that particular probability, right? Probability of this response, right? Now, after that, guys, what we are doing, see, we are passing this response, this particular response, okay, the prompt and the response to the reward model.
Sunny: Now, guys, this reward model, tell me, guys, from where this reward model is coming.
Sunny: Can anyone tell me from where this reward model is coming?
Sunny: This reward model, basically, it's coming from the stage 2.
Sunny: Means, we have already trained this reward model, correct? So we collected the human preferences.
Sunny: We have collected the… Human preferences.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: We have collected what? We have collected the human preferences, and we have trained the reward model.
Sunny: Train.
Sunny: Reward model, okay? Now, this reward model, actually, this RM reward model is the
Sunny: LLM as a judge. You can say it's a LLM.
Sunny: As a… Judge.
Sunny: Okay? J-U-D-G, right? So this is what is the LLM as a judge, or you can say it is a proxy of the human.
Sunny: It is a proxy of what?
Sunny: It is a proxy of human.
Sunny: Right? So this reward model, basically, it will provide the score, right? It will provide the score, means we are going to be passed the prompt and the response.
Sunny: Prompt, and the response.
Sunny: to this particular reward model, and this reward model will provide you the answer, right? So let's say this is my reward. I'm getting the reward. My reward is this one.
Sunny: Now, along with the reward, guys, we will be having one more model that is called the value model.
Sunny: Okay? Now, guys, if we're talking about the PPO, so this PPO actually Just PPO method.
Sunny: Actually… It is a RL-based method.
Sunny: Okay? And it is also called the policy method.
Sunny: Policy method.
Sunny: Now, inside this policy method now, we always use two network.
Sunny: We always use two networks.
Sunny: The first network is called the actor network.
Sunny: This is also called the policy network.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Policy network.
Sunny: The second network is called the critic network.
Sunny: Okay? So this is called the value network.
Sunny: If I'm saying network, guys, so network is nothing, it is just a model.
Sunny: So this model could be anything. This model could be the neural network model.
Sunny: This model could be the LLM network.
Sunny: Okay? Anything it could be, it's just a network only, right? So, we have a policy network, and one… the other one is called the critic network, okay? Inside the PPO. So, what is the full form of the PPO?
Sunny: Proximal.
Sunny: Policy.
Sunny: Optimization.
Sunny: So this is what, this is the full form of the PPO guys. Got it? Proximal policy optimization. Okay. Now over here guys, you can see if you will look into this particular image. So this is my critic method, critic network. So this is what guys, this is one, this is my value net. Sorry, this is my, this is what guys tell me. This is my policy network. Okay.
Sunny: Policy network.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, this policy network is also called what? It is also called the Akhtar network.
Sunny: Right. And we're talking about this particular network. So this is also called the Value network? Value model?
Sunny: Or it is also called the critic network.
Sunny: Right? So the same prompt and the responses, actually, we are going to be provide the same prompt and the responses.
Sunny: we are going to be provide to this value network also. And this value network also is going to be provide me some result, okay? This is the expected reward.
Sunny: what value model is saying? Value model is saying this is the expected reward, okay? Now, over here, guys, you can see, after that, what we are doing, we are going to be calculate the differences between the actual and the expected, okay? So, this score is called what? This score is called the advantage score, this one.
Sunny: So, if we are getting response in the plus, right, actual, this is the actual one, and this is the expected one. So, can you tell me, guys, from where this actual is coming, this actual response, this one, and from where this expected is coming?
Sunny: This actually is coming from the reward model.
Sunny: Okay? And this expected is coming from where? This expected is coming from the value network.
Sunny: Okay? This expected is coming from the value network, so here you can see the advantage score, that is plus 2.
Sunny: Got it? So, plus 2 means what? The response was better than the expected one.
Sunny: Okay, this is what basically we are concluding over here. Now after that, we have to update the policy. So policy updated updation is nothing. It is similar to the weight updation.
Sunny: Okay? It is similar to what? It is similar to the weight updation. So here you can see, guys, PPO update the policy.
Sunny: Right? PPO update what? PPO update the policy. PPO update the policy to increase the chance of the good response. So this was my old probability.
Sunny: Okay? Then let's say the new probability is going to be 0.72.
Sunny: So what it does, guys… so here, guys, it will create the… it will check the ratio between the old probability and the new probability.
Sunny: Right? Now, guys, this…
Sunny: PPU update the policy, that means there's nothing. That means, basically, it's just going to be update the weights of the model.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: After updating the weight, again, it's going to be check the new probability.
Sunny: Okay, this was the old probability. Now, again, it's going to be check the new probability, okay? And here, it's going to be calculate the ratio. Now, inside the PPO, there is a very important concept that's called the PPO clipping. So, PPO clipping is nothing, basically. So, here, basically, it's going to be check the ratio in the given range, actually.
Sunny: So, it is providing you this particular range, 1 minus epsilon to 1 plus epsilon. And this epsilon, you are going to decide what it's going to be. It is a hyperparameter.
Sunny: So let's say if you're going to be keep one value of the epsilon, okay, let's say 0.2, so this is going to be a range. Okay, let's say if you're going to keep 0.2 for this epsilon, so this is going to be a range. So this ratio, actually, should not be more than this 0 point, sorry, this ratio, actually, it should not be out of
Sunny: out of this particular range. If it is going to be out of this particular range, then PPO will say, okay, this is not a good update, this wait update is not a good one, right? What we were doing, guys? So again, it will trade the entire loop.
Sunny: Again, it will iterate on top of the entire loop, okay? So, this process is running for the thousand of the example in the same way, okay? For the multiple prompts, basically. So, this is the summarized process, as you can see.
Sunny: First, we are stating the prompt, then policy model is generating a response. This is our main LLM, which I wanted to update, okay, which I wanted to tune. Then, this response and the prompt is going to the reward model, it is generating the reward. Then it is going to the value model, that is a critic one, okay, again, it is generating a report.
Sunny: And…
Sunny: Here, guys, we have a, advantage score, okay? Then, guys, we will be having the PPO update. PPO update is nothing, it's a wait update. Now, after the wait update, guys, what it is doing, it is going to be check the
Sunny: It is going to be check what? It is going to be check the ratio between the old probability and the new probability, and it is doing that PPO clipping, okay? So this is the overall idea behind the PPO inside the RLHF, and then it is going to be find out the better policy. Better policy is nothing. Better policy means the updated weight, the final weights.
Sunny: Okay? The updated weight, the final weight, which will give you the correct and the accurate response. Getting my point, guys? So this is the overall idea behind what behind the PPO. Now tell me, is it getting clear? So can I show you this entire thing via practical also? This entire PPO one?
Sunny: Yes?
Sunny: Okay? We don't need to understand so many things, because, the roots of this thing is the very deep.
Sunny: If you're going to be understand the entire root of this entire of this thing, right? So it's going to be very, very deep guys. For that, you will have to go through the entire RL policy network and all RLHF and all. This is a very summarized form of the RLHF and this is more than enough.
Sunny: to train the model, to understand the process, and again, I'm saying, guys, this particular technique was introduced by the OpenAI in 2022, okay, a while back, but again, nowadays, if you're going to be performing the preference tuning.
Sunny: you will not prefer this RLHF. You will go with some other simpler technique, okay? And this technique are the complex one, because here the reinforcement learning is involved, and this is the pure research work, okay?
Sunny: So, yeah, I think I can show you this entire thing by practical, so that you will get a
Sunny: more clarity over there. Got it?
Sunny: Yeah, automatically it will take care of the entire thing. So, let's do one thing, guys. Let's, basically perform the practical, and then again we'll come to this particular process, and let's discuss a couple of more theoretical points over here, okay? I kept some more theoretical points. Let's discuss, let's make some discussion around to that.
Sunny: So, I'm putting a timer, then I'll show you the practical. Got it? So…
Sunny: are you learning something new, guys? Tell me yes or no, related to RHF and all. Have you ever learned this technique? No, I don't think so. Have you ever gone through with it? If you have gone through with any sort of a YouTube video, or any free resource, or anywhere else, right? So maybe you didn't get this much of clarity, right? Because…
Sunny: This, again I'm saying, the roots of this, particular topics are the very deep.
Sunny: For that, we'll have to be treated over the RL reinforcement learning, the policy network and all. Everything, basically will have to be valid. But, that… to be honest, guys, those things are the not-required ones for us.
Sunny: Because in my entire career, 6 to 7 years of career.
Sunny: I haven't done that thing, right? But still, I am working as a GenAI engineer, I am, like, doing so many things, okay, around to the GenAI.
Sunny: So, putting a timer, then we'll meet again. Thank you very much, guys.
Sunny: Why do we calculate advantage? Just to check the model is aligned or not. I mean, how the model is performing. Got it? Dawa?
Sunny: Should we take the instruction model we find to generate response option before the preference tuning?
Sunny: Yes, you can take the instruction model to make it more better, correct, solving, okay?
Sunny: Please share that image link. Yes, Shiva, definitely I'll share that link. I'll share the entire notes, okay? Don't worry. I'll share
Sunny: Let me complete this, one topic, Abhi, okay? Then I will come to that part. Got it?
Sunny: Anush, same for you as well.
Sunny: So we'll start that, okay?
Sunny: I think many of you are waiting for the rag, huh?
Sunny: How many of you are waiting for that, rag toffee?
Sunny: thing, everyone, correct? Okay.
Sunny: Saraya start karto, sarabhi… Fine tuning, fine tuning.
Sunny: Okay, guys, don't worry, we'll be starting. Let me finish it, then we'll start, right? Good.
Sunny: Thank you, bye guys, I'll see you after 20 minutes. Thank you.
Sunny: Okay guys, so can we, again start with the session?
Sunny: If everyone is there, please let me know in the chat, okay?
Sunny: Okay, guys. So, let's begin. Let's start with the RLHF practical. So, guys, so far, we understood the theory, right? Theory of the RLHF.
Sunny: That water models, all the steps are included over there. Okay, we understood everything inside the theoretical points. Now let's try to implement that. Okay, and let's understand how to proceed and how to basically perform the practical from where we have to import the class and all everything you will get it over here.
Sunny: So, coming to the GPU first, let me share this notebook with all of you.
Sunny: So, give me a moment.
Sunny: You can follow this notebook. Inside this, you will find out the complete solution. I mentioned inside the chat itself. So, first of all, guys, what we will do, we will install the required packages, or the required library. So, connect with the GPU, and install the required packages.
Sunny: So let me install it.
Sunny: It will take some time if you're doing it first time.
Sunny: And after installing the package, guys, always restart the session. Got it?
Sunny: And, please install the same version which I've mentioned over here, because it will not crash your code.
Sunny: Otherwise, you might, get some, code-related issues or the error.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Are you checking with the code? Yes or no?
Sunny: See, guys, so I have installed all the library. Now what I'll do, guys, I'll simply go inside the runtime and we'll restart the session. So this, all the changes will be, installed over there, okay, inside the current server.
Sunny: Now, what I'll do after that, I will import the packages. So, see, these are the packages which I'm going to be import. So this is the dataset I think you already know, AutoTokenizer, AutoModel CausalLM, AutoModel for Sequence
Sunny: Right? Then, reward, trainer, reward configuration, then PPO trainer, PPO configuration. Again, we are going to be imported from the TRL itself. Then, I'm checking the availability of the GPU.
Sunny: So these all are the important statements and the remaining code forward for checking the availability of the GPU.
Sunny: So, yeah, let it run, then I will show you the further one, okay?
Sunny: For the code. Now, here, guys, you can see we have some, additional settings, so some global settings. So let me show you that as well.
Sunny: This is nothing, like, I'm defining some parameter over here, so that, it will be used throughout the code. Now, this, particular parameter, this, environment variable for efficient, uses of the memory, okay?
Sunny: Then we have the seed number. So this is just to, like, stop the reproducibility, okay? So again and again, I'm going to be executing the cell, so I will get some randomness in my result, in my data, okay? Whatever sample I'm going to be, create.
Sunny: But guys, if I'm setting one seed value so that reproducibility will not be there, okay? So that randomness will not be there. I always, I will get the same output. So generally inside the Jupyter Notebook, okay, whenever we perform many experiments, we define the seed value. Got it? Now here I'm checking.
Sunny: So, I'm doing it with respect to the CUDA also. Now, this is done. Okay, so these are some settings, guys, related to this particular notebook.
Sunny: Now, here is one method which I'm going to… which I've created. Now, this particular method will help me to clear the CUDA-related memory, okay?
Sunny: some cache-related memory and all. So, it will make… it will make available for me. The memory, okay, will be available for me if I'm going to be execute this particular method. So, let me execute it from the different cell. So, this is the method, guys. I'm going to define it over here. Now.
Sunny: I will call it from there. Now, first, guys, I require the model, okay? So here, guys, you can see, I have a model, this hugging face.
Sunny: TB, small LM2135 instruct model. I can take this model also, but again, guys, see, inside this fine-tuning, we have so many things.
Sunny: We have to train so many different models, so this free version will not be sufficient. It will provide me… it will give me out-of-memory error at the end. So I'm using one small model, got it? But if you have memory, if you have an upgraded version of the Colab, then you can utilize any sort of a model there.
Sunny: whatever is fitting according to that particular server. Now, let me take a model. Now, here is a model, guys. Now, what I will do, first, I will load the tokenizer of the model, okay? So, here, guys, what I'm doing, I'm going to be load the tokenizer. I think you already know about all this setting. We have already discussed it multiple times, right?
Sunny: Now, guys, you can see the dataset. Now, can anyone tell me this, dataset is coming from where?
Sunny: It is a mock dataset, but in the real time, guys, you will get this dataset from the human preference.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: You will get this dataset from where? You will get this dataset from the human preferences. So, isn't it the human preferred data?
Sunny: We have a prompt, how should I prepare for the exam? Now see the chosen and the rejected. How do I improve fitness? See the chosen and the rejected. What is the AI? Chosen and the rejected. How I can improve my teaching skill? Chosen and the rejected one.
Sunny: So these are what, guys, these are some, basically reference data, okay? Now, in the real time, basically, this data might come from any of the places, okay? So this is my raw reward data.
Sunny: Now, on top of this, guys, on top of this data, what I will do, I will train what I will train my model, okay? On top of this raw data, I'll be training my model. So, here, guys, you can see, I will… first, I will format this particular data. So, for formatting this particular data, I have two methods.
Sunny: So I'm converting this data into the ChatGPT format, okay? Now I'm making the final example. So let me show you the final result so that the idea will be clear to all of you at how the data looks like.
Sunny: So, just a second. These are the two methods, guys. First method is, make chat GPT prompt. Okay, make chat prompt.
Sunny: So here, my role is a user one, so I will take a user prompt, and I will pass it to the tokenization object, and I will call this method applyChatTemplate. I'm passing my message, I'm not doing any sort of a tokenization over there.
Sunny: And I'm, adding the generation prompt also. So let me show you the final output, how the final output looks like. With that, you will get a clear-cut understanding. And this will be my word, this will be my final result. Okay, this one.
Sunny: So, guys, if I'm going to be map it with my entire dataset, so let me do with my entire dataset. So, see, I have a raw dataset, I'm iterating on top of that, I'm passing it to the make reward example, okay?
Sunny: And I will be getting what, guys? What is a US token? It is an end-of-sentence token.
Sunny: Okay? If you will check out, this particular token, then what is the value of it? Let me show you over here. See, TM took… this is the end of, sentence token.
Sunny: You can see the end of sentence token, this is the one, right? So here, the sentence is going to be end. Got it? Now, guys, what I'm doing, see?
Sunny: I'm preparing my dataset, so this is my reward data. I'll be getting my reward data. Let me show you my reward data. See, here is the reward data.
Sunny: Now, inside the reward data, my format is ready, okay? You can check out with the first row. So, let me show you the first row of the reward data. See, this is the first row of the reward data, okay? So, what we have, we have a prompt.
Sunny: I've converted into the ChatGPT-specific format, so this is my, start of the sentence. This is my system message. Okay, then here is the user message. Then, here is what? Here is my prompt.
Sunny: Sorry, prompt result.
Sunny: chosen, and the rejected. So, in this particular format, the data is created.
Sunny: In this particular format, the data is created. Now, this ad generation prompt… sorry, this one.
Sunny: Where is the ad generation from?
Sunny: Where is that method? Okay, add generation, this one, it will give you this one, this system prompt, actually.
Sunny: It will give you what? It will give you the system prompt, okay, if we are going to be mentioning that particular parameter. Got it? So this is what… this is my data, guys. I hope the data creation is clear to all of you.
Sunny: Now, what we are doing after this one, guys, tell me. So, this is the preference fine-tuning only, Amitji. This is the preference fine-tuning. At the end, we are going to achieve the preference fine-tuning only using this RLHF technique. Got it, Amit?
Sunny: Now, here, guys, I'm going to convert this data into the Hugging Face-specific format. So let me convert this data into the Hugging Face-specific format. And then I can show you the first row, that how the data sample will look like. So let me run it, let me execute it. So see, the same data sample you're getting.
Sunny: from this rewardDS data, from this rewardDS variable. So what we have done so far, let me revise all those things.
Sunny: So, first, we have installed the required packages, required library. I think you already know about this particular library, the required packages, transformer, dataset, accelerator, TRL, PAV, and bits and bytes, okay? Because throughout the fine-tuning, we have used this particular library.
Sunny: Now, after that, guys, you can see we have imported this, specific packages. Now, just focus onto this package. This is for the reward training, okay, from the TRL, and this is for the PPO training from the TRL again, right? So, this is the package which is required to us.
Sunny: Now, here I'm checking the setting of the GPU, and here I'm defining some global setting, right? Now, guys, this is the method for clear the memory. Now, I'm deciding my model, which model I have to tune, okay? Footprints tune.
Sunny: Now, guys, here is what? Here is my tokenizer, which I'm going to be load on behalf of the model name, so I'm getting my tokeniz
Sunny: Now, this, model basically is going to be a reward model, so that's why I've written tokenizer RM. So, my tokenizer is loaded over here, with all the, padding, setting, and all, everything. Now, after that, guys, what I've did, I have created one mock dataset, but in the real time, this dataset might come from anywhere, this particular dataset, okay?
Sunny: So I have 5 points only inside my dataset, but in your real-time dataset, you could have more points. Got it? Now, here I'm formatting my data.
Sunny: Right? So, for formatting my data, I have two methods. One is a makeChatGPT… makeChatPrompt, okay, and then makeRewardExample. So, what will happen, guys? I will be iterating on top of this raw data variable, okay? I am passing this particular row inside this method, makeRewardExample.
Sunny: So, it will come over here, the example will come over here, it will go inside this particular method, the prompt will go inside this method, okay? Now, here it will convert into this, dictionary, and then, finally, it will return this particular result. So, we are…
Sunny: I will be having the system message, as well as the user message. Then, finally, what I'm doing, I'm going to be convert my data, okay, means, further, I have two more columns, choose another rejected. So, to that one, basically, I'm going to be add this
Sunny: IMN token, okay? So this token, IMN, means here, the response is going to be N. The chosen response is going to be N, and the rejected response is going to be N, okay? So I'm adding these two things.
Sunny: Now, after running it, so my final prompt will look like this. So this is my prompt. Here, the system message is going to be started. Here, the system message is going to be end. Here, the user message is going to be started. Here, the user message is going to be end.
Sunny: Then, here the response is going to be started. Now, this is the chosen response. It's going to be ended over here. Then this is the rejected response, and it's going to be ended over here.
Sunny: So likewise, guys, we are going to be preparing the final data. Then we are going to be converting to the Hugging Face format. So after converting to the Hugging Face format, this is my final data, which I'm going to be capturing inside the reward DS.
Sunny: Tell me, is it clear?
Sunny: This data preparation is cleared.
Sunny: If the data preparation is clear, you can give me a quick thumbs up, so that I can proceed.
Sunny: Tell me, guys.
Sunny: It is very easy to understand. Once you will go through with this entire notebook, you will be able to get that. It is the simplest Python code, which you can easily understand.
Sunny: If your basics are clear, relate to the Python. Got it? Now, guys, after that, what I will do… so here, guys, you can see, we are going to be load the reward model.
Sunny: Okay? So here, guys, I'm going to be load the reward model. See, this is the class for loading the reward model.
Sunny: Now, this model actually is going to be a sequence classification model. This is not going to be a generation model. Okay, sequence classification model means what? It will provide you the final value in the form of probability, right? So, you can see over here, we are going to be load this reward model using this class.
Sunny: Auto model for sequence classification from pre-trained. I'm passing my model name. I'm saying one label only, okay? Binary output it will provide, right?
Sunny: And, binary output means what? From the single node only, the final output will come. It will be the probability only. And this is the data type. So here is what… here's my reward model. So I've got my reward model. Now, this is a configuration for the reward training.
Sunny: So I will keep my result inside this directory. Okay, so this is a setting related to the batch size. This is the epoch, basically, for how many epochs I am running.
Sunny: This is the learning rate, guys. Again, it is the optimizer. Okay, I'm logging after one step. Okay, evaluation strategy is none. This is my data type, which I'm keeping it false. Automatically, it will decide. Okay, maximum length, basically. This particular length, I can provide the input, and it is going to generate one single output.
Sunny: Credit checkpointing is true. Again, it is related to the optimizer only. And remove unused column is false. Okay? So this is what… this is my reward modeling configuration. Now I'm preparing my reward trainer. So here I'm passing my model. Here I'm passing my argument.
Sunny: Here I'm passing my, this tokenizer, and then my dataset. So these many things I'm passing over here inside the reward trainer.
Sunny: So let me execute it, guys. So what I'm getting, I'm getting my reward trainer. I will simply call this reward trainer rmtrainer.train, okay, and then I am saving my model inside this particular directory, right? So my directory will be over… so my model is going to be saved out over here.
Sunny: So let me run it, let me execute it, so my training will be started for the reward modeling.
Sunny: And my model is going to be saved.
Sunny: Got it, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: You can check out the import statement, you will get where the model class have been imported. So this reward modeling, sorry, this reward model training is clear.
Sunny: Yes. So, see, the reward model is trained, and after the training, guys, where I will get this particular reward model. So, if you will check out with this rmout directory, okay, inside this particular directory, basically, you will get the reward model, this one.
Sunny: Okay, so the reward model is saved over here. See? The reward model is available.
Sunny: So, gradient checkpointing is used to save the GPU memory, actually, during the training. So, in the normal training, actually, the model stored many intermediate activations from the forward pass.
Sunny: Okay? And use them during the…
Sunny: backward propagation that use a lot GPU memory. Okay? So with the gradient checkpointing, the model does not store all the activation. Instead, it stores only some checkpoint.
Sunny: Okay, and recompute the missing activation during the backward pass. So, again, it is related to the, it is related to what, guys? It is related to the training only, the optimizer mainly, the optimizer part, okay?
Sunny: So that's why we use what? We use the gradient checkpointing.
Sunny: Okay? Now, here, guys, you can see the model is trained. Now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm just going to be clear the memory, because I have to train my further model, the final model. So, reward modeling concept is clear. So, if you will look into the nodes.
Sunny: So, how many stages we have completed so far?
Sunny: Tell me, guys, how many stages we have completed so far, if we will look into the notes.
Sunny: So we have completed two stages. The first is called the data preparation and the second is called what? Second is called the reward modeling. Okay, now the third stage basically to train the PPO, to use the PPO and to train the real actual model. So here guys, what I'm doing, see this is my model name, this one.
Sunny: Okay? This particular model. But in real time, basically, this PPO… the actual model could be anything, right? Reward model could be the different one, and the actual model, which you wanted to train via PPO, that could be the different one.
Sunny: So, LLM as a judge, the reward model, you can use any other model as well, that is completely fine. But over here, I'm using the same model only.
Sunny: But you can use any other model also, okay? This, actual model, your, PPO trainable model, the main policy model, and the reward model could be the different, different one. Got it? Now, here, guys, first I'm going to be load the PPO tokenizer. See?
Sunny: Okay, so let me load the PPU tokenizer.
Sunny: Sir, can you please base… reasoning… see, this is only the reasoning basis, na, Anandji. First, you will understand the entire process, then you will be able to get, na.
Sunny: Correct. If you want answer of every what, every why, every single single character. So that is difficult sometimes. Okay, so first let's go through with the entire process. Let's look into the final output. Automatically that connection and the entire thing would be clear. And again, we'll look into the theory. We'll take a kind of revision over here.
Sunny: Right? I know from which mentality you come. So, you wanted to understand the…
Sunny: like, parameter meaning, then this, the depth of it, okay? So, sometimes it is not possible in terms of the LLM training. You will have to be… adapt this part. Got it? But yeah, the overall flow will be connected inside this practical. This is my promise. Got it, Anas?
Sunny: Now, over here, you can see, guys, what we are doing, we are going to have a PPO tokenizer. So, if you will look into this particular image, see what I have mentioned over the blackboard?
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: So, this is the image, guys. Now, inside this one, what is our main network?
Sunny: What is our main network? The main network is nothing, it is a policy network, this particular network, okay? So this is going to be generate something, this network actually is going to be generate something, which will go to where, which will go to the reward model, okay? And this reward model basically is providing the reward to us, got it? Now here, you can see.
Sunny: We have a tokenizer for the PPO. Then, guys, what I'm doing, I'm going to be load the PPO model, okay? Now, here you can see, we have a PPO model. Now, tell me, guys, this PPO model is going to be what? It's going to be a generation model, it's going to be a sequence classification
Sunny: It will provide you the generation output, or it will provide you the single value.
Sunny: Tell me, guys.
Sunny: This PPO model.
Sunny: PPO model is our main generation model. Correct. PPO model is our main generation model.
Sunny: Okay. PPO model is what? PPO model is our main generation model. So let me mention it over here, over the blackboard.
Sunny: Just a second. So what I'm doing…
Sunny: Okay, guys, just give me a moment.
Sunny: Yeah. So, let's say… Let's see.
Sunny: you are working in the company, right? And the company, basically, you have to train the XYZ model. The model name is what, let's say? This is the model name, this one.
Sunny: What is the model name? Small LM2.
Sunny: Right, so let me write over here. Let's say you are working in one.
Sunny: X… Why?
Sunny: Jet Company. Okay?
Sunny: Now, inside this company, you have to… Train this small LM model.
Sunny: this model is being provided by the Hugging Face, this particular model, this small LM model, right? So, this is your main model.
Sunny: Which you will tune.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: You will?
Sunny: Perform the preference tuning.
Sunny: For this model.
Sunny: You will perform the preference alignment.
Sunny: So this model actually is going to be a causal model, right?
Sunny: causal model.
Sunny: Right? Would generate something, na? The generation model, the main generation model.
Sunny: Got it? So this is your main model. This one.
Sunny: It's smaller than.
Sunny: Now, we're talking about… we're talking about the OpenAI.
Sunny: So for the OpenAI, which is the main model, which they wanted to preference align? Tell me.
Sunny: The current model from the OpenAI is GPT 5.5.
Sunny: This particular model, they wanted to align, right? Preference align. Getting my point. Reward model is a different model.
Sunny: Reward model is a… Different model.
Sunny: Okay? This particular model is a different model, and this is… Providing with the… 1.
Sunny: Single.
Sunny: Value as an output.
Sunny: Okay, that you will get from where? That you will get the… from the sequence classification head.
Sunny: Sequence classification had.
Sunny: Means, at the end, you are going to predict what is the probability
Sunny: Of being positive to that output or negative to that output. Do you know the sequence classification, the text classification, spam hem detection, or basically positive or negative detection? So this is what you're doing over here. You're just going to be checking the probability of the positive and negative, and this is only you are being concluded.
Sunny: In the form of what? In the form of reward.
Sunny: Right? In the form of what? In the form of reward.
Sunny: Got it. I hope, this is clear. Now, guys, let's, do one thing. See, let's, load the PPO model. So, here is our PPO model, and this is the, like, the, pet, spreading configuration of the PPO model, okay? And here I am writing.
Sunny: Getting checkpointing is enabled. For what, guys? For the efficient GPU memory management, right? So, I got my PPO model, just a second, what is the mistake here?
Sunny: Policy is not defined.
Sunny: Okay, so guys, the model is loading just a second. So model is loaded over here, right? Model is what guys? Model is loaded. Now, along with the policy model, guys, see, there is one more thing which I haven't discussed with you when I was discussing the theoretical points, right? Now just focus over here for that specific point, right? Now see.
Sunny: we'll be talking about the policy model, okay? So, alongside the policy model, we'll have to be, like… we'll have to make a copy of that model, okay? That is called… what that is called? The reference model.
Sunny: Right? This is what, guys, this is called the reference model. So here I mention the detail of it. The reference model is a frozen copy of the original policy model.
Sunny: Okay, so it is a newer train, it is never trained during the PPO. It only purposes to measure how much the current policy model has changed and apply KN penalty if it is drift too far from its original behavior.
Sunny: So we are keeping one reference model, and with respect to that reference model, we are checking that how much this, actual PPO model have been trained.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys. It is nothing, it is just a copy of this PPO model only. Getting my point? Yes or no? Is this part is getting clear?
Sunny: Tell me yes or no, guys.
Sunny: So, just to check the drift, actually, just to check the drift of this PPO model, okay? So, we are taking a reference, okay, we are keeping one reference model, and this we would be using, right? And this is for what? For the…
Sunny: a KL penalty. So KL penalty, basically, it's a term, right?
Sunny: So, what is a KL penalty? So, if we're talking about the KL penalty, how I can explain that?
Sunny: Kl penalty, basically, just a drift difference, okay? It's just a checking a drift, or the differences between the original model
Sunny: Okay, the original model which we have loaded, and the model after the training. That is called the KL divergence, or KL penalty.
Sunny: Understood, guys, what is the meaning of the KL divergence or the KL penal Tell me.
Sunny: So, here, here, basically, we have this model, original model, let me show you. See?
Sunny: Let's say we have loaded one model.
Sunny: My model name is what?
Sunny: is small, LM.
Sunny: Okay? Now, this is what… this is my policy model.
Sunny: I'm going to ask you something. Please answer for that.
Sunny: Now, tell me, guys, are we going to train this policy model?
Sunny: Yes or no? Tell me, yes or no? Right? So, after the training, guys, after the training, right, it will be preference aligned.
Sunny: It will be preference aligned.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: This particular model is going to be a preference aligned, right? Now, guys, how to check the drift, right? What was the original behavior of this policy model? So, what we are doing, before training.
Sunny: Before training.
Sunny: We are keeping copy of this model, right? Before training, I'm keeping a copy of this policy model.
Sunny: Somewhere.
Sunny: Now, this is only called my reference model.
Sunny: Okay? Now I'm checking a difference after training, after training, right? So let's say this is my model after training.
Sunny: After training, this is my policy model.
Sunny: This is… my…
Sunny: Policy model.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: And now, this is before, right?
Sunny: This is the before version of the policy model. So to check the differences between that.
Sunny: Okay, to check the differences between that, that is called the KL penalty.
Sunny: Or this is also called the Kier divergence.
Sunny: care divergence.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Tell me. This part is getting clear to all of you. Yes. So, this is what, basically, we are doing inside this LM. See, guys, I know this is a complex thing. That's why no one, that's why no one, like, teach in the… anywhere, this particular concept and all.
Sunny: And none of the places, basically, will find it out. Got it? So, here I hope, this entire thing is getting clear to all of you.
Sunny: Now, see.
Sunny: So this is what guys, this is the reference model which I'm keeping it over here and there's all the configuration with respect to the reference over here. And here we are keeping the gradient required gradient false means we are not never going to be trained this particular model. Okay, that's the meaning of it. Now here guys tell me, are we going to be user reward model?
Sunny: Are we going to be use a reward model in the PPO technique? Yes or no? Are we going to be use a reward model in the PPO technique?
Sunny: Yes or no? Are we going to be use a reward model in the PPO technique? Now, guys, one more thing I would like to ask to everyone. We are going to be use a reward modeling in the PPO technique, but
Sunny: Are we going to train it again?
Sunny: Right? No, we are not going to be trained that model. So, see, from where we are going to be load the model?
Sunny: From where we are going to be load the model.
Sunny: From where we are going to be load the model? From the RM out, right? Now, here, guys, you can see we are making the con… we are making, the configuration over here that
Sunny: Required gradient false means training is not required.
Sunny: What is the meaning of this line?
Sunny: training is… Not required.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Training is not required.
Sunny: Reference model training required. Do we need to train the reference model?
Sunny: No, right? Training is not required. Are the ISCA training required? Policy model training is required to us? Yes or no?
Sunny: Good.
Sunny: Yes. Iska, this training is required, right? Now, one more thing, guys. Now, one more thing. This is a very interesting one. Just check out the value one.
Sunny: I mentioned one more model that is going to be a value model. Tell me, guys. So, what is this value model? This one.
Sunny: Just think over here, just look into this image, and give me 1 minute, guys, I'm taking 1 minute of water break, just look into this image, okay? And tell me what is the value model here.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so… anyone is able to understand what is a value model? Huh?
Sunny: I think no one able to get. See, only a couple of people, only, I think, one or two person, but many of you, you didn't get what is a value model, actually. Let me conclude that, okay? Then, I will show you the final training.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Guys, this is a very confusing process, okay? It's a very, like, confusing process. I don't know who has invented that, and
Sunny: It's very confusing, actually.
Sunny: That's why the… like, the new techniques came in the market.
Sunny: And the researcher worked on some refined technique, so see.
Sunny: First model… Is that a reward model?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: This model, actually, we are training over the…
Sunny: Preference data.
Sunny: very easiest model to understand that what you are doing, okay? So it is just, it will just provide you the
Sunny: Single probability value.
Sunny: Guys, final explanation after that, I will not explain anything, I'll show you the direct training.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, the second model… Is that…
Sunny: What is the second model? The second model is a… Policy model.
Sunny: This is our main model.
Sunny: This is.
Sunny: R… Main model.
Sunny: Which… I… want to… Print.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: This is the main model which I want you to read, that is our policy model. Now, what I have done.
Sunny: I made a copy of this model.
Sunny: So that copy is called… this copy, basically, I'm keeping inside the… reference model variable.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Why we are doing that?
Sunny: So, after training, After training of this policy model.
Sunny: This.
Sunny: Policy model.
Sunny: We can check the drift, actually. It is not drifting too much from the original behavior, so we can check the drift.
Sunny: So this is called what? This is called the KL.
Sunny: Divergence.
Sunny: Or, it is also called the KL penalty, right?
Sunny: care penalty. Got it?
Sunny: Now, guys, How many models we have so far? 3 models, okay?
Sunny: Now, the third model… Which is called, over here, Value Model.
Sunny: Now, its story is a little different, what it is doing, actually. See, it is also an LLM.
Sunny: Okay, it is also a LLM, but which LLM? From where it is coming?
Sunny: Now, guys, this particular model, the story is a little different. Now, understand the policy pipeline here, okay, this PPO pipeline.
Sunny: Teko, what is happening inside the PPO pipeline?
Sunny: Let's say we have a policy model.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, we are giving a prompt to the policy model.
Sunny: It is generating the response.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Now, this prompt… And the response… It is going through the.
Sunny: reward model.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, this reward model, actually, it is… Already trained model.
Sunny: Got it, guys? Yes or no? Tell me
Sunny: This reward model is already trained model, yes or no, right?
Sunny: Now, it is generating some reward.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: It is predicting some reward.
Sunny: Got it? Now, guys, what is happening? Now, see?
Sunny: We have this prompt and response now.
Sunny: This prompt and response.
Sunny: Now, on top of this prompt and response.
Sunny: One more model is being trained.
Sunny: That is our value model.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, it is also giving me a reward.
Sunny: But this reward, basically, it is not from the inferencing time. It is not an already trained model on some dataset. On the fly, this value model, it is being trained on this prompt and the response, and whatever reward, actually, we are getting over here, that's an expected reward. Means, at the time of the training.
Sunny: The value we are getting, that is.
Sunny: that… this… this is that particular value, the time of the training we are getting, right? So, this is a policy model, the main model which I wanted to train.
Sunny: Then we have a reference model that is a copy model.
Sunny: Okay? Copy model of this policy model only, just to check the KL penalty.
Sunny: We have a reward model, which is an already trained model, which is giving me a reward.
Sunny: Now, this one, this prompt and the response data, right, which we are getting from this policy model.
Sunny: Okay, on top of it, on the fly, we are…
Sunny: training one more model that is a value model, and this is giving me the expected reward, okay? So this is a predicted reward, sorry, this is the actual reward.
Sunny: This is what, this is the actual reward which you are getting. And this is called the expected reward.
Sunny: Expected reward. See, what happened now?
Sunny: Let's say we wanted to train the neural network. Okay, let me explain you this with the help of neural network. Let's say this is my neural network.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, guys, tell me, whenever we train the neural network, let's say, here is my data. The data is coming.
Sunny: Okay? We are passing a data.
Sunny: Now, at the time of the training.
Sunny: At the time of the training also, we get some.
Sunny: value over here, na?
Sunny: This is called the predicted value.
Sunny: Predicted value.
Sunny: Okay? So this expected value is nothing, it's just a predicted value, which we are getting at the time of the training. It's a lookup. You remember? And in the embedding model also, I discussed with the same concept, that that is not a trained model, that embedding model, it's just a lookup, right? So just a…
Sunny: Predicted value, actually.
Sunny: Predicted value at the time of the training.
Sunny: Right? This is only called the expected value, and between these two values only, we are going to be check the advantage value. Advantage value.
Sunny: Okay? And that advantage value we are going to be reducing with the help of PPO clipping, okay?
Sunny: The PPO policy updation, it is also called the PPO policy updation. So this is the overall process. This is the overall process. Now, did you understand what is all… what is the different, different models we have over here?
Sunny: One is the policy model, second is the reward model, third is the value model, and again, we have a copy of the policy model that is a reference model.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Got it, guys?
Sunny: Great.
Sunny: Why it is called the policy model? Because this is a policy technique, the policy algorithm, okay? See?
Sunny: Whenever we talk about the reinforcement learning, na.
Sunny: In the reinforcement learning, we have two kind of technique.
Sunny: The first is called the value-based technique.
Sunny: And the second is called the.
Sunny: policy-based technique. So this PPU, actually, it's a policy-based technique where we use the two-network, always.
Sunny: Okay? In the value-based network… value-based technique, we have the technique like the Q-learning.
Sunny: Q-learning is a table-based technique.
Sunny: Okay? Then we have another technique that is called the DQN. This is a neural network-based technique.
Sunny: But again, this particular technique was not effective for the real time, for the continuous value, right? So for that, guys, scientists have replaced this DQN technique with this policy technique, this is the more updated version. And this was introduced after 2015, maybe, and then only we have seen some, basically.
Sunny: Advancement in the field of this are reinforcement learning, and it is being used at the multiple places in the real time.
Sunny: and was able to solve so many challenges, right? So, that's why, guys.
Sunny: We have some different name, okay? That work is same, it is just updating a weight in a backend of the network, that's it, right?
Sunny: And that is called the policy only, right? So, actor cutting and all. For that, guys, we'll have to deep dive into the reinforcement learning. And again, that is not our scope of this session or this course, right? That's why, like, I already told you that we will just go through with the overview of all the things, that's it, right?
Sunny: Now, I hope this entire thing is clear. This slide is important, guys, tell me. Is this part clear to all of you, this one?
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: Yes, correct, Mohan. So everything will be concluded in the single class itself. I'll show you that where it will be coming. Got it?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, let's, train the model. So, this is my value model. Now, tell me, guys, are we training the value model? Yes or no?
Sunny: Are we training a value model?
Sunny: On the fly, it will be trained over the prompt and the responses.
Sunny: Are we training a reward model?
Sunny: No, sir, it is already trained. That's fine Okay.
Sunny: Are we training a reference model? No, we are not training that reference model.
Sunny: Okay? Are we training this policy model?
Sunny: Yes, Sergey, this is our policy model, this is our main model, right?
Sunny: So PPO model is ready, then reference model is ready, then reward model is ready, then value model is ready.
Sunny: And I'm going to be clear the memory.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, here is my prompt. I will be passing the prompt, this particular prompt. On top of it, the LLM is going to generate a response, and that is going to be aligned with that PPO algorithm, okay? So, this is my prompt, guys. Now, I'm going to be…
Sunny: Again, formatting this data, so this is the method for that.
Sunny: Okay, then, this is the tokenization for the PPO, right? So, prompt will come over here, and then…
Sunny: we'll get a tokenized value of that prompt, right? So, input ID and the length, because here we are doing the training.
Sunny: Okay? Training of the LLM.
Sunny: So there's two methods, I hope it is clear. One is converting, formatting my data.
Sunny: Okay, second, basically, is tokenizing my data, right? Now, here, basically, what I'm doing, I'm going to be mapping my data.
Sunny: So after the… after formatting, guys, what will happen?
Sunny: My prompt will be converted into the tokens.
Sunny: Right? So let me show you how the final output will look like.
Sunny: This is the final output, which you will get, see, with respect to the prompt. Let me show you the final data, this one.
Sunny: Okay, so we have an input ID with respect to the given prompt.
Sunny: And this is my other… see, this is the input ID, basically. This will be passed to the model, okay, for generating a response. Means for training, basically, right? It will go to the PPO, and it will be trained, right? Here is, guys, what is the PPO-related configuration? So again, here we are saving the related output of the PPO.
Sunny: Okay, again, batch related training is tabulated training optimizer. Okay, box. Then we have the logging strategy. Whether we are going to be saved the output somewhere or not. It is related to that. Okay, this data set data explicitly, we are keeping it false.
Sunny: Then, here is a gating checkpointing, we're keeping it true for the better memory uses. Okay, remove the unused column, false.
Sunny: Okay, so…
Sunny: So, this is my, basically, PPO argument. Now, see, now focus onto this PPO trainer, this is important. So, here we are passing the argument, here we are passing our tokenization, this is my main model, the policy model, here is my reference model, here is my reward model, here is my value model, okay? And this is my dataset.
Sunny: Are we passing all the 4 models inside the PPO trainer? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Are we passing all the 4 models inside the PPO trainer? This one?
Sunny: Okay, so we are passing all the four models. Now, can anyone tell me what is our main model which I wanted to train?
Sunny: What is my main model which I wanted to train?
Sunny: Policy, right? Modelism, policy. This is just a different name.
Sunny: Okay, it is just a model only, got it?
Sunny: This is my reference model. This reference model is for what? Tell me, guys.
Sunny: Just to check the drift.
Sunny: KL penalty.
Sunny: This reward model is for what, guys? Tell me. To provide the reward. Okay? Then we have this value model. This value model is for what?
Sunny: For the… For providing you the?
Sunny: a dog?
Sunny: Training.
Sunny: predicted value.
Sunny: Okay? AirDoc training predicted value, right? So let me create this PPO configuration trainer, and then I will train my model. So see, my model is being trained over here.
Sunny: And my final output is going to be saved. Okay?
Sunny: So guys, is this entire RLHF is an interesting one? Tell me honestly, guys, have you learned this RLHF technique earlier also in this way?
Sunny: No, right?
Sunny: So, I think very few people have learned, maybe one or two, but not the complete one.
Sunny: So, this is the, like, the complete RLHF process. So, in the industry and all, if you're going to be implemented.
Sunny: You're going to be implemented in the same way, okay?
Sunny: Now, guys…
Sunny: Here we are going to save the model. So the model has trained. See, I have running it for very minimal step and all. So that's why you are not getting anything over here, the log and all, but if you're going to be running it for multiple epoch and more, more step, you will get the detail. Okay, I'm saving the model. Now, after the saving, guys, I am, clearing the memory. So let me clear the memory first.
Sunny: Okay, and then I'll make the inferencing. So for the inferencing, I see, I'm loading the model from the PP output directory.
Sunny: This is my inferencing tokenizer. This is a tokenization-related configuration.
Sunny: Now, here is my final inferencing model, okay? I am, keeping it as an evaluation… in the evaluation phase.
Sunny: Now, this is my prompt, which I'm passing for the testing. I'm formatting that prompt, I'm formatting the data, okay? Then, basically, I'm converting it to the tokens, then I'm passing the data to the model, okay? And then, finally, I'll be getting the output.
Sunny: Okay, this is the complete inferencing code, right? So let me run it, guys, and let's see the output of it.
Sunny: Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Now, see, guys, I'm just saying strategy, strategy, strategy. I think something is being picked wrong, right? So, system is saying this is the question, this is the, basically what, this is the user message, and this is what, this is the answer, right?
Sunny: So I think, we'll have to be run it for the multiple epochs, okay? Because in one single epoch, when the very, small epoch for the very simple… like, the minimum step, it's not able to provide me the correct output, right?
Sunny: So, but yeah, model is working fine. Technically, everything is working fine. So, maybe in between, I will have to tweak some epoch setting and all, so that it will be trained in a better way, and it can provide me the good answer. And even… see, this model is not good. Whatever we have trained, it is just for the process. Got it?
Sunny: Great.
Sunny: Don't worry, Anand. Once we'll enter into the other modules and all, you will get the, more excitement and the curiosity, okay?
Sunny: Don't worry.
Sunny: Fine, guys? So everything is an abstract one. We are not going to implement this PPO from scratch. Everything is hidden inside this trainer and this training and all, okay? Every sort of a logic has been written over there. Got it? Kamala?
Sunny: Human feedback… this reward model, actually, it is a proxy of the human feedback. So, we are providing that human preference data to the reward model, okay? And the reward model is being trained on top of that, and that is working as a human feedback. Got it? Kamala? Is it clear?
Sunny: Great. So, fine, guys, I hope you understood this entire process. Now, tell me, guys, is it clear to all of you? Is this part clear? Is this entire process clear?
Sunny: Okay, so I can give you the score, you can go through with it, right?
Sunny: So, providing you this code, I think I already capped in my… one of the,
Sunny: Folder, let me check it out, that.
Sunny: Award reference… see, guys, I've given you some data points now inside the notebook. Even you can take the data from this, JSONL file also, okay? Because I had the limited memory in the free version of the collab, so that's why, guys, I haven't used too many data points.
Sunny: I just use 5 points, okay? So, guys, but if you're going to be using any good model with some good dataset in the…
Sunny: good amount of data sent with a good number of epoch and all, definitely you will be getting a response, you will be able to, enhance the, model behavior, okay? So that is completely true.
Sunny: So, guys, let me give you the updated code. Just a second. I'll have the PP… I think this is the code, guys.
Sunny: RHF with the PPO. Let me keep the both, actually.
Sunny: And even the assignment is also clear. So, how many people are going to complete the assignment?
Sunny: Can you at least give me some thumbs up so that I can, look…
Sunny: That whether you are really interested or not.
Sunny: Okay, I think many people are saying they will participate in that assignment challenge.
Sunny: Please do it, guys, and please demonstrate your solution, because it is really necessary, right? You see, even it will give you some learning, and even you can, like, do some practical by yourself, if it is coming to you in a real time. Got it?
Sunny: Great. So, guys, I've given you the updated code as well, it is there inside where, inside the,
Sunny: folder, okay? Now, one more thing is pending. So, people who are asking me about the DPO also, right? So, again, related to the DPO, you will find out the research paper. So, simply, you can check out the DPO research.
Sunny: people.
Sunny: Right? So once you will, write it over the…
Sunny: browser, you will get that. So, see, this is the research paper, the DPO.
Sunny: And, you can read it out. So, let me tell you what is a complete
Sunny: conclusion of this DPO research paper. So for that also, guys, I have, created one image, okay, one, concluded image. Let me, keep it over the blackboard. Let me tell you the idea of the DPO as well, and then I'll show you that practical quickly.
Sunny: Because we have already done that now, so I'll show you that practical quickly, okay? So this is a DPO, guys. Is it visible to all of you, this DPO image? Tell me.
Sunny: Is this visible to all of you, this DPO image?
Sunny: Okay, so let me, explain you this entire process, okay, what is happening actually inside the DPO.
Sunny: So, inside a DPO, basically, we don't have any reward model, and even we don't have any value model also.
Sunny: So, DPO is not a RL-based technique, okay? It is not a reinfor- it is not a reinforcement-based technique.
Sunny: Now, we're talking about this RLHF.
Sunny: or if you're talking about the PPO specifically.
Sunny: So this is the RL-based technique.
Sunny: RL-based.
Sunny: Now, RL-based technique, actually, see.
Sunny: It is a little different from the classical deep learning.
Sunny: Okay? In the RL-based technique, actually, we don't perform the supervised training.
Sunny: We don't perform the… we don't perform the supervised training.
Sunny: Okay? And it is different from the DL. So this RL-based technique actually learns in the loop. It's a trial-and-error-based technique.
Sunny: Trial and error-based technique.
Sunny: It is a different AI paradigm.
Sunny: So if you're talking about the AI paradigm, guys.
Sunny: So, we have merely 3 types of paradigm
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: The first paradigm is called the supervised training.
Sunny: If you wanted to learn the AI nagais, so just learn these 3 things.
Sunny: First is the supervised training.
Sunny: The second is called the unsupervised training.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: And the third is called the reinforcement learning, reinforcement training.
Sunny: Okay? Now, guys, here, basically, we don't have any loss function.
Sunny: It is not relying… this reinforcement learning technique is not relying any input and output column.
Sunny: It is not relying on any supervisor.
Sunny: Okay? This reinforcement learning, actually, it's a trial and error method.
Sunny: It is learning from the environment behavior only.
Sunny: Other than the supervised training, actually, it is an input and output-based training.
Sunny: This output, it is behaving like a supervisor.
Sunny: Okay? And this unsupervised training, actually, again, we don't have any output over there. It is a clustering-based technique, so based on the similarity, it is going to be create a group, grouping, something like that. So it is completely based on that. Making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Yes? So, if you will check out with my notes, guys, so inside the notes also, I have mentioned this particular point, see?
Sunny: What I mentioned, guys, tell me.
Sunny: I mentioned, PPO is not a supervised learning.
Sunny: Because it does not learn from the ground truth levels, okay? It learns from the reward signal generated by the environment or the reward model.
Sunny: Tell me, yes or no? So this is a feedback mechanism.
Sunny: RL is what?
Sunny: RL is a feedback mechanism, actually.
Sunny: Okay? So, this is the three paradigm, the main paradigm of what? This is the three main paradigm of what? This is the three main paradigm of the AI. Got it?
Sunny: Now, guys, if we're talking about the PPO, basically the PPO, so this PPO, actually, it is a
Sunny: RL-based technique, and even the GRP also.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: GRPO.
Sunny: Now, inside the GRPO, guys, see, again, they are not going to be used the value model.
Sunny: They remove the concept of the value model. They are just going to be used the policy model.
Sunny: Okay. Reference model.
Sunny: And the reward model.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: They are making a comparison in between only. Sorry, they are making a comparison or something like that. They are coping some responses and all. That's the overall mechanism of the growth GRPO. Okay, so tell me guys, is this part clear to all of you?
Sunny: Is this part clear to all of you? Right? Right? So, over here, guys, the GRPO again.
Sunny: it is having some different mechanism, okay? Some, different, kind of mechanism. If you wanted to understand the GRP and all, so I can provide you similar kind of images, otherwise you can generate that, okay? Maybe I would be having somewhere, I'll mention inside the notes. Now, let me tell… talk about this DPU.
Sunny: This DPO is not a RL-based technique, right?
Sunny: This is not a RL-based technique. This DPU, actually, it's a simple…
Sunny: supervised technique, okay? It's a simple supervised technique. Let me tell you how does it work, this DPO technique.
Sunny: So, over here, guys, what we have, we have a preference dataset.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So the prompt is, what is AI? Now here, chosen, rejected, okay? Like this, the data is going to be prepared.
Sunny: So, here, DPU learns from this particular prompt.
Sunny: The combined one.
Sunny: So, we have a 2 model, okay?
Sunny: The first is called the policy model, this is the trainable model, and the second is called the reference model, this is the frozen SFT model.
Sunny: Got it. So this model is updated. This is our main model.
Sunny: Okay? This model is still fixed, this particular model. So, prompt is going over here, okay?
Sunny: is going to be generated something, then the chosen rejected, okay? This particular thing is going inside this reference model. So both models compute log probability for the chosen and the rejected responses. Okay, this model, this reference model, and this policy model. Again, this is the frozen model only, right?
Sunny: Now, guys, here we are going to be compare the preferences. So, policy, basically, log P and log P.
Sunny: Now, this is from the policy model, this is from the reference model. So, we are just going to compare that. So, DPU checks whether the chosen answer is preferred or more than the rejected one. So, this is the implicit reward. This is, like, one of the method… sorry, this is one of the formula. This is the DPU formula.
Sunny: With that, basically, it's going to be check, okay? Which value is going to be performed by the policy model.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Is it clear? Tell me.
Sunny: Is this part clear?
Sunny: Right? So…
Sunny: Here we have a policy model, and the second model is what? Second model is a reference model. Again, this is just a copy of this policy model only. We don't have any reward model, we don't have any value model, nothing we have.
Sunny: We are going to generate the response from this prompt, okay? We have the chosen and the rejected already, okay? So we're just going to make a comparison. Kind of loss, basically, we are going to find out.
Sunny: Okay? Kind of laws, basically, we are going to be find out. In between what? In between this policy one, and in between the reference one. That's it.
Sunny: Understood, guys? Yes or no? So, loss is going to be less when the chosen is more than the rejected one. So, increase the probability of the chosen, decreasing the probability of the rejected, right? So, this is the overall game of the DPO. That's it, guys. Nothing else.
Sunny: Okay, so if you wanted to check the implementation of it, let me do one thing, let me show you the implementation, because we have already performed the implementation of it in our previous class. So if you will go through with our previous class, so let me open this preference alignment.
Sunny: And here, let me open this particular solution, right? So, inside this particular class, guys, the class, what is the class, what is the number of a class? Class 23, right? So, inside this particular class, I already explain you the DPO, right? So, see, once you will scroll down.
Sunny: Once you go to scroll down, guys… Okay.
Sunny: So there, basically, we'll find out a DPO, right? So, say, DPO trainer would be there.
Sunny: DPO trainer, just a second, guys. Let me scroll down till the last. I think the preference model would be at the end only, right? So I'm just going to be scroll down till last.
Sunny: Okay, so this is done, this is fine, now this is the inferencing of the SFT.
Sunny: Okay, this is the instruction tuning, guys, right?
Sunny: This notebook is very important, okay?
Sunny: You can use the DPU, don't use the RLHF
Sunny: In place of the RLHF, you can use the TPO
Sunny: So this is the instruction tuning. Now, after that, only the preference tuning will come.
Sunny: This is the preference tuning, guys. Now see, preference tuning with the DPO. So I already discussed the… I already discussed what I already discussed the DPO in the previous class. Now see the prompt chosen and the rejected, okay? This is a complete explanation of the DPO and all, right? Here you can see this one.
Sunny: You can read it out, this as well, right? Now, over here, see, this is the preference data we were loading. After that, see, this is the data alignment and all.
Sunny: Then, guys, what we have, we have the preference-based model. Okay, then the final model, basically. See, this is the final PEFT model. Okay, the preference training, which I wanted to do right, I will do it over the final PEFT model.
Sunny: Then, guys, if you will look over here, so this is the DPO configuration. See, this is the DPO configuration, which I already explained in that class. You can check it out over there.
Sunny: Then, guys, see, this is the DPO trainer, where what we are passing, we are passing the reference model. We are… sorry, we are passing the actual model, okay, the preference model. This one, this is my policy model, actually, the main model, which I wanted to train.
Sunny: This is my reference model. If I'm keeping it none, means TRL will internally use the reference behavior, okay?
Sunny: So either I can pass this reference model explicitly, or automatically, TRL will use, this particular DPO trainer will use this model as a reference model, okay, in the backend itself. Then this is the argument of the, training, okay, training argument for the DPO. Then this is the training data set and the validation data set, and this is my tokenizer.
Sunny: So here, guys, I've shown you the training of the DPO. You can look over here, you can look into that particular class, and you can refer to this notebook. Got it, guys? Yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny: So, we have already covered this part. Now, let me revise this DPO part, that what is actually happening over here.
Sunny: I can revise this thing.
Sunny: So, in the DPO, basically, the DPO is a simple Supervised kind of training, okay?
Sunny: So, inside that, first we have our data.
Sunny: In the data, we have a prompt.
Sunny: chosen.
Sunny: And the rejected.
Sunny: column.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Then, guys, the second is the model, the actual model, which I wanted to train.
Sunny: Trainable model.
Sunny: The second is the reference model.
Sunny: Okay? Now, this reference model, actually, it could be the frozen version.
Sunny: Frozen version of model.
Sunny: Okay, this model, this model.
Sunny: Okay, this particular model.
Sunny: Or it could be the new model. It could be… Andy?
Sunny: New.
Sunny: different model, okay? Any model, you can keep it for the references.
Sunny: Now, what will happen, guys? Now, this prompt, actually…
Sunny: Now, this prompt, basically, it will enter into the actual model.
Sunny: My actual model.
Sunny: And it will give me the response.
Sunny: Okay? The probability of this particular response.
Sunny: Then, guys, we have a chosen.
Sunny: And they're rejected also. This particular data will be entered into either inside the reference model.
Sunny: Okay, and I'll be getting a probability of what? Probability of the chosen and the rejected both, right? Now we're just going to make a comparison between this result, this response, the probability which we are getting via this reference model, and we are getting via this particular model. That's it, guys. So this is what we have concluded inside this image.
Sunny: Okay? So, compare the preferences. So, this is my main model, the policy model, log of chosen P, log of chosen rejected. Now, reference model, log of P means probability of chosen and rejected. So, DPU checks whether the chosen answer is preferred more than the rejected answer.
Sunny: Now, higher value means the policy prefers the chosen answer more than the reference answer. So, this is the implicit reward, which we are going to be calculating, okay? Just the ratio, basically, using this particular formula. That's it, guys. This is the overall idea behind the DPO. Got it?
Sunny: So, in interview, they will not be asking you much thing. In interview, basically, they will ask you which technique you have used for the preference training, okay, how the DPO works, how the RLHF works, that's it, guys, nothing more than that. Got it?
Sunny: I hope, this entire thing are clear. So, yeah, today, guys, we are going to be conclude the fine-tuning chapter.
Sunny: And, let me give you this entire notes and all, so that you can refer it.
Sunny: Now, from the next class onwards, guys, we'll be starting with the drag, okay?
Sunny: When to use DPU, when to use RLHF? Again, you can use the DPU on top of the RLHF. RLHF was a complex process, none of the person is using that now. Everyone is relying on the DPU and the ORPU kind of technique. Got it?
Sunny: So, I'm giving you these notes.
Sunny: So, tell me, guys, did you like the session, or did you really learn something new over here?
Sunny: I already took one class for the preference tuning, but again, this could be more helpful, right?
Sunny: So, providing you this particular notes, and even the complete GitHub.
Sunny: Okay? With all the updated files and all. So, just a second.
Sunny: Yeah, everything will be included over there, you can check out from the GitHub online.
Sunny: So, just go through the GitHub and take all the notes from there itself.
Sunny: After the course, I'll delete this GitHub.
Sunny: No, I'm just kidding, okay?
Sunny: Okay, so, guys, here you can see, this is the folder. Inside that, you will find out the complete resources, right? Just go through with this entire resources, just, like, revise this entire thing, and again, I'm saying, guys, whatever I explain, okay? No one will ask you more than that.
Sunny: Again, it depends on the interview as well.
Sunny: Whether they are interested in the fine-tuning or not. If they're not interested, even… they will not touch even this kind of part as well. If you're able to explain this much of DPO, the high-level process of the DPO, that will be more than enough. Got it? Because the roots of this thing, the RLHF and all, it's, like, very deep
Sunny: It's completely coming from the different, like, the native topic and the, RL-related topics and all, right? Ppo and all, how does it work? And even the DPO also for that, will have to be evaluated, the complete supervised tuning and all. That is not at all required, okay?
Sunny: So whatever we have learned so far, if you know this much, if you know that much, you can easily correct the interview, you can easily perform the practical, because in practical, nothing is there, everything is an abstracted one.
Sunny: You just have to use the class, okay? And the parameter detail and the parameter specification, everything, basically, how to navigate, how to check that, I have shown you that part, right?
Sunny: So, fine-tuning is rare, okay? It's not very rare, it is rare, right? And, only, in a couple of cases, only you are going to be do that. But again, to stronger fundamental, it is required. Now, whatever topic we are going to be start.
Sunny: From next class onwards, guys, so that is what a real generative AI, right? The real application use of the generative AI. Generally, guys, in most of the courses and most of the places… at most of the places, you will find out that people are starting the generative AI from the rag.
Sunny: from the APIs, API model call and all, from the agent, agents and all, right? So, from next module onward, the real application world of the generative AI is going to be start, and that is more important than this one.
Sunny: Got it? So please go through with this entire material, please solve the assignment, okay, please give your demonstration, and whatever I committed, definitely I'll provide you from my end. And going forward session, I'll give you very, very good assignment, so that everything will be covered through the assignment itself.
Sunny: Got it? So we're going to be solved this, one assignment, guys. Your complete fine-tuning is going to be, I think, your complete fine-tuning is going to be revised from this assignment.
Sunny: Fine, great. So, any prerequisite for the RAG? No, I don't think so, any prerequisite. When to use DPU, when to… again, same question… okay.
Sunny: It should not be, do we work on the fine tune for the LLM on the real project?
Sunny: That's what I'm saying, it depends, company to company, enterprise to enterprise, okay?
Sunny: What is the last date of the submission? Anand Singh G, you can check out over here, I already mentioned.
Sunny: Right? This one.
Sunny: The submission date is till 11 July, and from 12 July onwards, we have the demonstration, okay?
Sunny: Yeah, definitely, Sunil. We are going to be learning a different, different thing, okay? So, we'll go according to the, like, syllabus, okay? And,
Sunny: We'll complete those modules, like the fine-tuning only
Sunny: So, do we need any keys to be ready for the upcoming class? Yes, you can be ready with the open router key, or with the… with this grok key, okay? You can be ready with this key.
Sunny: ADK part of the scores? I don't think so.
Sunny: If you are going to be learning at least one framework, that would be enough. Okay?
Sunny: Oh!
Sunny: All the agent development kit or whatever framework, the different, different framework you are seeing now.
Sunny: are the same one only. They're following the same philosophy, the same, concept. So if you are good with at least with one framework, no? Right? At least with one framework. You can, code, or you can build an application with any other framework.
Sunny: And guys, believe me, nowadays, everyone is using the co-pilots only.
Sunny: Okay, the coding is very easy nowadays.
Sunny: Everyone is building the application and shipping the application, right?
Sunny: That is a different thing, like how much is going to be… how many applications are going to be successful, and how many applications are going into the production, right? But coding is not at all difficult. If you have… if your fundamentals are clear, if you know the basics and all, if you know the basic concept, okay?
Sunny: Of the AI rack, agents and all, easily you can build the system.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: I don't think so this is required, Avi, right? Because, this course actually is completing a… is… it is like,
Sunny: Basically considering a wide range of the topic in the generative AI, right? So, we are not going to the depth of any of the topic, like, if we are going to be covering the agent and multiple framework of the agent and all. For that, we have some other courses, like Agentic and all. Okay, so we'll touch upon some framework, whatever we have mentioned.
Sunny: In that only, we'll see the development. Got it? Again, I'm saying…
Sunny: I have worked on the Agentic system, I have worked on the RAG system, right? Guys, you won't believe, in my entire 3-4 year of generative AI career, I never touch any other framework. Once I work on the LangChain.
Sunny: Okay? Then twice again, I work on the LangChain, and all the projects, 95% of the time, I use the LangChain. In my three Agentic projects, the real projects which I productionize, I have used the LangGraph.
Sunny: In one of the projects, I have used the OpenAI kernel, that is just for the POC purpose. But Langra was a quiet code. Okay? So guys, don't, like, be, go behind this framework and all. Understand the fundamental and the concept.
Sunny: Okay? And LangGraph is the best one to understand that. Got it?
Sunny: Correct. Coding is not a barrier, more on design and the deployments, you are right.
Sunny: Fine, guys, so let's conclude the session, and from next class onwards, I think we are ready to go to cover up this… sorry, to start a new module.
Sunny: And, yeah, we'll, start, okay? So please complete this assignment, and please complete before the deadline, and do your submission over here.
Sunny: Okay, do the submission via this form.
Sunny: So I will update the form, basically. I will mention that particular assignment name. I think it is not there as of now, but don't worry, guys, I'll mention.
Sunny: Yes, if you work for the farm companies or any of the other good companies, you know, you require the DSA skill, that is required, okay? That is mandatory for the interview purpose and all. Recently, my one of the friend, he transitioned,
Sunny: Sorry, he basically placed in Amazon, right? I asked to him what kind of knowledge was required for cracking the interview and all. So, straightforward, he said to me, you will have to practice the code.
Sunny: Because in the first round, in the second round, still they will ask you the code, and then, the rest of the project and the other thing, they will ask you in the other different rounds. Got it?
Sunny: LangGraph is a free one, by the way. Got it?
Sunny: IS Copilot performed fine-tuning using ADK.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: In Rank Independent Module, no need to prioritize and all? No, I… we can, discuss the parsing concept, vector database and all. Easily, you will understand that. From now onwards, we are into the more practical modules. Got it?
Sunny: Great, fine guys, thank you, bye, take care, I'll see you in the next class. So, yeah, via this form, you can
Sunny: I will, edit the name. Let me edit it right now.
Sunny: Can I add it?
Sunny: This is the one.
Sunny: I can add the assignment for.
Sunny: Assignment 04 name is what? LLM?
Sunny: What was the name of the assignment, guys?
Sunny: Practical… fine-tuning assignment.
Sunny: I can mention it over here, just a sec.
Sunny: Okay, so this is done, now I can save it, and even I can publish it.
Sunny: So guys, once you will refresh this link, no? I think so you will get it over here, this name.
Sunny: Yeah, guys, so the assignment is over here. Got it? So, fine. Thank you, guys. I'll see you in the next class. Thank you for joining the session. If you have any doubt, be here. I will discuss in the doubt session.
Sunny: Good.
Sunny: Guys, after 3 minutes, I'll be starting the doubt, so be there if you have any
Sunny: Okay, guys, so let's, start with the doubt session. So, yeah, Vikas, what's the doubt?
Vikas Verma: Okay.
Vikas Verma: Yeah, hi, Sunny. Am I.
Sunny: Can you come again, please, with us?
Vikas Verma: Wow, didn't…
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, you are audible.
Vikas Verma: So, Sunny, I just wanted to know one thing, that I'm creating a project in the current organization.
Vikas Verma: And, it's an, agent-based model. When I'm creating a project to, To, ingest the policy.
Vikas Verma: guideline of the organization, create a SQL script or Python script, this is that policy guideline. But what happens is that whenever the LLM is generating, it's generating every time a new SQL script. So.
Vikas Verma: 7 out of 10 times, it's creating the correct one, but 3 out of 10 times, it's creating something new, kind of a SQL script, which cannot… which is giving a wrong output.
Vikas Verma: So, since it's a LLM-based issue, I have kept the temperature zero. So, is there anything else I can do? I mean, my direct question is that
Vikas Verma: If I fine-tune the model, will that serve the purpose?
Sunny: So, as of now, you are doing the RAG approach, you are taking the RAG approach there?
Vikas Verma: Not RAG, actually. So, it's a predefined…
Vikas Verma: policy. We ingest the policy to the Llm. Model, giving some prompts from that policy. The basis, the prompt, the output is coming, and from that particular output the sequel or python script is getting generated.
Sunny: Okay.
Vikas Verma: So… so, the issue is this. So, there were two thoughts in my mind. One.
Sunny: Bye.
Vikas Verma: could,
Vikas Verma: fine tune my Llm. Model, but I don't think that will serve the purpose, because eventually it will again hallucinate, I mean, even if I keep the number to 0. Second thing is is that if I do some rag after I apply the rag on this Pdf document. So in that case there.
Vikas Verma: 500 policies. So if I apply that there are, are there chances that the policy guideline of one policy will get mixed with the another one, and we create a new kind of a rule which is a mix of 3 to 4 policies.
Vikas Verma: So, just wanted to solve this issue, and need your guidance on that.
Sunny: -H
Sunny: So, see, what I would suggest you, na? Here, basically, this fine-tuning will not be my first solution.
Vikas Verma: Mmm.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Fine-tuning, basically… you fine-tune can help, but it should not be the first solution here. For SQL Python script generation, no?
Sunny: We need accuracy, right?
Sunny: Consistency, right? Not just a better language generation. Correct, correct. Yeah.
Vikas Verma: Correct.
Sunny: That's the main name over here. So if the model is generating correct SQL,
Sunny: That's 7 out of 10 times, and wrong 3 out of 10 times, right?
Vikas Verma: -Hu.
Sunny: even with the temperature zero, then the better approach, what you can take over here, you can keep the policy guideline in the RAG on the knowledge base somewhere.
Sunny: Okay.
Vikas Verma: Diff.
Sunny: Give the model a fixed SQL script or template.
Sunny: Right? In whatever template, in whatever script you wanted to… whatever, like, script or template you wanted to generate. Got it?
Sunny: Ask the model to fill only required field, not generate everything freely. Means over here, you will have to take some deterministic approach also. Means you will have to create some, template, okay? And ask model to fill out the template, okay, based on your knowledge. Getting my point.
Vikas Verma: Wait.
Sunny: So you can add some validation also before execution, like SQL syntax check, schema check, dry run, unit test, rule based verification, something like that. And if possible, generate the JSON structure first, then convert the JSON structure into the SQL or.
Sunny: SQL using the normal Python code, right? So, this kind of orchestration you will have to do inside this, solution.
Sunny: Getting my point.
Vikas Verma: Yeah, I got the point, thank you so much for that. But I created JSON script also, but at times what happens is that the policy document also contains the embedded Excel.
Vikas Verma: And that embedded Excel has parameters up to, you know, 3 lakh rows or 5 lakh rows. In that case, when it incorporates the embedded Excel value into the JSON, the JSON script, you know, fails.
Vikas Verma: So that's the issue, while getting the system.
Vikas Verma: So, I am using, currently, the Panda's data frame.
Vikas Verma: information, it's working. And the embedded Excel issue is resolved in that, but the hallucination of creating, 3 to 4 times a wrong.
Sunny: Before that, no, no, I got it. You are… you can be retrieved, like, a mixed policy, right? The multiple similar policy and create…
Vikas Verma: Multiple different. So I have 3, 500 different policies. Every policy has different criteria.
Sunny: So, do one thing for that seat. Let's say you have a user requirement. So, do one thing. Create one policy classifier.
Sunny: Okay, which is going to be select an exact policy or group of policy, right, based on the user… based on the requirement. Okay. Now, over here, you will have to apply something more, maybe.
Sunny: Okay, retrieve only relevant, policy clause or something like that.
Sunny: right, then only you can filter out that specific policy for an LLM. Getting my point. So something, some rule would be there, just check it out there, because see, you are a, like, a developer there, right? So you are developing the solution, like, you're solving the.
Vikas Verma: So.
Sunny: problem, right? So just take a help of the multiple AI tools or coding assistant and all, just give your idea to them, just do some brainstorming, okay?
Sunny: Likewise, only we can solve it. So if this problem will come to me only, then I will also take a multiple approach. I'll ask to the co-pilot GPT, I will put some of my idea, and I'll,
Sunny: Try to figure out the better solution.
Vikas Verma: Got it. So we'll do that also. I have already done that, but in a different way, I'll do it. One more question is that, so, the question that I'm asking, if I convert all those 500 policies into a RAG database, I mean, do chunking and store the embeddings into a RAG database.
Vikas Verma: And, will that work? I mean, is it like the, while creating the embedding, the policy content will get mixed up with each other? Or…
Sunny: It doesn't… see, it will… it will not be, right? It might not be. See, if you're going to be implement,
Sunny: good retrieval technique.
Sunny: Okay, and if you're going to be mentioned some even rules, okay, more rules, a sort of deterministic rule on top of the retrieved data, then you will get the exact result.
Sunny: the more chances over there, right? But see, again, the AI application could not be, like, 100% accurate every time.
Vikas Verma: Mmm.
Sunny: Okay, even ChatGPT is also writing that, disclaimer, ChatGP.
Vikas Verma: Make a mistake.
Sunny: Chat important information.
Vikas Verma: I mean.
Sunny: This is like in every application. Even in our app, we have developed some application for a business and we have given a clear warning to them that the AI evaluation will not be a final evaluation. Human manual intervention is required there. Got it?
Sunny: So, we cannot completely rely. If you're able to achieve 70-80% accuracy, just confirm first with the stakeholder that how much accuracy you want. Okay. So, when we were developing a solution, we have taken the clear-cut criteria that, okay, this much recall should be there.
Sunny: Businesses agree, okay, 75… if you are achieving 75% recall, then our solution is good to go. That's it.
Vikas Verma: Okay, got it, got your point. So that means, if you are developing an AI model.
Vikas Verma: You know, expecting 100% accuracy is not a practical, expectation. This is what I should convey to the leaders.
Sunny: Correct, correct, correct.
Vikas Verma: Good luck.
Sunny: And I wish everybody.
Vikas Verma: Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah. One last question. I will not take much of your time. I'm sorry for that. I was asking too many questions. The, the access of viewing these recorded sessions, I think, it would be one year maximum, right?
Sunny: Mmm.
Vikas Verma: Okay.
Sunny: Yeah, one and a half year, I think so. Just check out at the orientation session, what Chris is committed, maybe he's committed for the one and a half year or two year, just check out there, okay?
Vikas Verma: Okay, if it's true here, that would be of great help, because in, currently, there are so many topics that are helpful in the real-world scenarios. I'm not saying every topic of whichever you are teaching is 100% correct.
Vikas Verma: And helpful, but, from the industry's, application, so currently, the RAG which you're going to start is definitely going to help me in that, but the fine-tuning model, I, I attended many of your classes, but somehow I, I lost the, you know,
Vikas Verma: The, follow-up on that. So, I was thinking of, you know, going back to those sessions, if,
Vikas Verma: If the timeline is extended more than a year, so just wanted to know if it can be extended, it would be of great help for people like us who are working professionals, and we can only get access whenever we have time. We are having some time after the projects that we are doing.
Vikas Verma: So that's one request from my side. I wanted to make sure that it fits possible or not.
Sunny: Yeah, you can, for that, basically dashboard access and all, you can check out the counseling team, right? But from my end, you will get a support, right? So don't worry about that. Even if you are going to be paying me after the course completion, I'll help you. Don't worry.
Vikas Verma: Thanks. That's a lot of information. Thank you so much for your help. Thank you so much. Bye-bye.
Sunny: Yeah, thank you, sir, bye Okay, next, doubt, yeah, Pooja Goyal, please go ahead with your doubt.
Pooja Goyal: Double?
Sunny: Yeah, you are audible.
Pooja Goyal: Okay, so I have just posted my query on this, actually, on messages in the group that, we have, right?
Pooja Goyal: Is it possible for you to check there, or should I share my screen?
Sunny: You can share the screen, ma'am. I can add you on the panelist, okay?
Pooja Goyal: Okay, sure.
Pooja Goyal: I'm sharing my screen, let me know once it's visible to.
Sunny: Yeah, it is visible.
Pooja Goyal: Okay, so actually, I was going with this recording, that multi-model fine-tuning you explained that day, right?
Pooja Goyal: So, actually, I'm facing this issue here. I will show you directly that.
Sunny: Mmhm.
Pooja Goyal: When I am… Loading this model, no, a second.
Pooja Goyal: this one, trainer.loadModel, so it is saying that this particular file is not available, additional chat template, even I went to this hugging face, this particular model as well, and I can see this file is not available, so I checked in chat GPT, even in Gemini as well, so it asked me to execute some
Pooja Goyal: script, actually. So here, it asked me to check this, actually, by using this code, whether these particular files are available in both these models or not. So I get this false only. So I just wanted to check if I'm doing something wrong, or, like, anything has been upgraded, because
Pooja Goyal: Earlier, I was using current latest version, but then it asked me to degrade the version, so I even degraded the version to some 25… 2025 something. So this, unslothed version, actually, I degraded.
Sunny: Mmh.
Pooja Goyal: But still, it is not working. It is saying that this additional data chat, this particular file, it is not available to get it from the Hugging Face model, actually, this.
Sunny: Just show me that file, sorry, that model which you are accessing, show me that name.
Pooja Goyal: Yeah, sure, I will show you.
Pooja Goyal: So, I tried with different, different model, whatever you have mentioned over here, so…
Pooja Goyal: Once again, let me go down a little bit. So, these are the models, right? That day we covered all these models. So, first I tried with this, yes?
Sunny: Okay, which model you tried?
Pooja Goyal: Yeah, I tried with this model, and with this model as well, and then I tried with this as well.
Sunny: At the first model, just copy the name of the key and pass it there.
Pooja Goyal: I think it's 33.
Sunny: Now scroll down.
Sunny: We are running.
Pooja Goyal: I think I will have to execute it.
Sunny: Execute it, and
Pooja Goyal: Let me check if it's completed or not.
Sunny: Scroll down, scroll up a little bit, scroll up.
Pooja Goyal: Okay.
Sunny: You have mentioned, yeah, now scroll down.
Sunny: On it?
Sunny: Scroll down. Run this also.
Pooja Goyal: It is already in progress.
Sunny: What is the meaning of this false over here?
Sunny: It is…
Pooja Goyal: It's saying that in this particular model, this particular file, this additional chat template for the file that I'm getting error, no, this is not available, it is saying that…
Sunny: Copy this name and paste it over the browser, just this repository name. Not this one, Ansaloth also. Copy from the Ansaloth.
Pooja Goyal: Okay, okay.
Sunny: Yeah, paste it over the… Yeah, now it entered.
Sunny: Open.
Pooja Goyal: I agree.
Sunny: Yeah, open it.
Sunny: Yeah, it's available now, sir Why it is showing?
Pooja Goyal: Yes, this is available, but in files and version, no.
Pooja Goyal: This particular file, this additional chat template that is not available for that, it is showing issue something.
Pooja Goyal: Yes.
Sunny: I don't think there should be issue with, because I haven't faced such kind of issues, why you are getting that.
Pooja Goyal: I'm not sure, I was running the same file that you gave, actually, and I tried last schedule… Do one thing, do one thing, do one thing.
Sunny: Okay, just close this one. Just go with my GitHub repository.
Sunny: Open my GitHub repos.
Pooja Goyal: John, give me a minute.
Sunny: Good.
Sunny: Not download this file.
Sunny: And I open the collab.
Sunny: Now go in the upload section.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now upload this recent downloaded file.
Pooja Goyal: Allow me a minute, actually, I will have to upload there only, because here I don't have my Hugging Face token and all, I will have to add it.
Sunny: No, no, it's fine, it will automatically take it, don't worry. Okay, no, don't, don't close
Sunny: From there, disconnect the runtime.
Sunny: Open the previous notebook and disconnect the runtime there.
Pooja Goyal: Sure.
Sunny: Or disconnect the runtime.
Sunny: Now connect the runtime in the new notebook.
Sunny: Connected, now running this one, print all, okay, run, go step by step, slowly, slowly, okay? I'll run this one.
Sunny: Run it.
Pooja Goyal: I will have to take this folder as well, right?
Sunny: Yeah, run it.
Sunny: Run this also.
Sunny: Okay, now use this repo ID, and don't run it, it'll be working. Don't do anything, go with the file.
Pooja Goyal: Okay, this is yours, so it will work.
Sunny: It will work, it will work. Open that, open that.
Sunny: Oh, not on it.
Sunny: Let it be. Okay, now run the further one. Yeah.
Pooja Goyal: Okay, sure.
Pooja Goyal: It simply will not,
Sunny: You can, you can escape this one. No worries. Yeah. Okay.
Sunny: Now… scroll down… yeah, run this.
Sunny: Ansloth… we haven't mentioned any version of the Ansloth, so it should take the latest version only.
Pooja Goyal: Yes, it was taking earlier 26-something, like, 2026 version, actually, latest one.
Sunny: So let it take the latest version, let's see.
Pooja Goyal: Sure.
Sunny: Yeah, Chris, so what is your doubt? Can you go meanwhile?
Krish S: Sure.
Krish S: Yeah, thanks, Sunny. So, I have a question regarding this assignment. So I plan to…
Krish S: Use healthcare as my,
Krish S: you know, project to do the fine-tuning. So, couple of questions. So, I can pick any open-source model to train this, correct?
Sunny: Yes, you can pick, correct.
Krish S: Okay. So, another question, as far as fine-tuning, I know you're going to cover RAG later. So, the way I understood fine-tuning is, you know, unless the data is not changing a lot, and you want to use that LLM for a specific purpose.
Krish S: Then you can train your data on top of whatever it is, you know, rather than being very context-specific and all that stuff, correct?
Sunny: Correct, right.
Sunny: So, in the final LLM, basically, we are just providing some specific context to the LLM and generating a final response, right?
Krish S: Okay, got it, got it, okay. So, in terms of, the quality of the output, right? Like, for example, let's say you use…
Krish S: OpenAI or Claude or one of those things. What can I expect from fine tuning on any open source model? So in my specific case, I'm going to use some medical diagnosis.
Krish S: and all that stuff to kind of understand what is the real condition of the patient, with some technical outcomes and all that stuff. So I'm just curious, like, you know, when I start using some…
Krish S: synthetic data to fine-tune this. Can I expect, like, a similar quality that, you know, you normally get from OpenAI or Claude, or is it going to be something maybe not at that level?
Sunny: That is quite a little difficult, okay, to beat their benchmark, because they have a very good resources to train their model and the data as well, correct?
Sunny: But yeah, you can do better, in your own circumstances. Let's say, if an OpenAI model, a cloud model, right, any of the model is not generating a good response, or at any cost you wanted to host your own model, then you can go with this approach.
Sunny: Where you can, fine-tune a model, you can compare the output of that opens, the other model, basically, okay? You can compare the output in between, whether your model answer is correct, and whether that is generating a good one, okay? More domain-specific answer, in between, make, you can make a comparison. Like that, you can make a comparison. Got it?
Sunny: So, again, it is a subjective thing only. You will have to decide the benchmark first, on which basis you are going to be evaluated, or your requirement is just to, like, host your model, then I think you should go with the fine-tuning and host your own model, that's it, alright?
Krish S: Got it, got it. So mostly I should focus on the instructional training and ensure that.
Sunny: Current SFQ training, right.
Krish S: Okay, okay. And one last question. I know you're going to cover RAG and other stuff later.
Krish S: Are you also going to be talking about, like, the… the cloud skills that has been, like, you know, being so popular now? Because there's a lot of automation and other things happening apart from the Agentic piece. I don't know if that's in the scope, or is it something that,
Sunny: Claude is, like, one of my favorite things, so definitely I'll show you that, okay? How to create those MD file and do some, like, the automation, means how to, like, stop that repetitive work and all, and all, and how we can create some good template, and we can provide to the Claude, and there they can help us to automate so many things. Got it?
Krish S: Excellent, great, great, super, thank you.
Sunny: Yeah, thanks.
Pooja Goyal: Should we continue… suddenly?
Sunny: Just a second, I think it is just a virgin mismatch issue, so let me check out.
Pooja Goyal: Sure, sure.
Sunny: What could be the correct version for you?
Sunny: Can you check out with this model if possible, or…
Sunny: Someone is also saying this is a virgin issue.
Sunny: Sameer, which version you were using there? Can you please guide, if you have used any previous version?
Sunny: Let me check, okay, wait.
Pooja Goyal: Go.
Sunny: Okay, do one thing, Pooja, just give me some time, I'll check it out from my end, okay?
Pooja Goyal: Oh, sure.
Sunny: I can update that in a committee chat. Just ask me over there, I'll update, okay? Because I will have to execute it from my end to check out which version is compatible, and why it is giving us this issue. Whether should I change the… need to change the model ID, or do I need to change the version only? Got it?
Sunny: Sure, sure.
Pooja Goyal: So.
Sunny: Let me execute, then I'll let you know in the next class, okay?
Pooja Goyal: Sure, sure.
Sunny: Or ask me in the comedy chat, I'll answer, got it?
Pooja Goyal: Okay, sure, yeah, thank you.
Sunny: Yeah, sure, thank you.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so I think I clarified all the doubts,
Sunny: Let's end our session now. I'll connect with you in the next… I connect… I will connect you in the next class with a new module, the new topic. Until… please revise all the thing, and please complete your assignment. I'll see you in the next class. Thank you, guys. Bye-bye. Take care. Have a good night. Thank you.